on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i want to thank you and all our colleagues who participated with us yesterday in paris boulevard voltaire in this immense peaceful march for freedom. elsewhere, across europe, millions of people have made it a formidable popular tsunami. that is why 11 january will remain the date of birth of the europe of peoples united in diversity, united in adversity, united for our values and against hatred. united not in books, not in treaties and not even in speeches, but in the street and in hearts. the victims in paris are the same as those who died in madrid, london, oslo, brussels and toulouse. you said it, mr president: journalists killed because they were journalists, police officers killed because they were police officers, jews killed because they were jews, muslims killed because they had read in the koran that peace is the most beautiful of god's names and comedians killed because they dared to laugh. the real targets are our universal values which europe proclaimed first and around which the whole european project is based: freedom of expression, freedom of belief, tolerance, the right to all differences, the dignity of the human person and, of course, the value of peace - the supreme value. peace as the goal, as the means to resolve all differences by preserving all differences. this is the miracle that europe has achieved. this miracle is under threat. once hatred was insidiously back in the mouth, now it is back in the deed. it is up to us to be worthy of this tremendous cry of brotherhood, which was raised yesterday in immense silence by all the crowds of europe. (applause) i would like to thank
in the name of the s&d group. mr president, in the name of what unites us, in the name of what we defend and will continue to defend, in the name of the fundamental rights of all women and men, in the name of their freedom to think, to speak, to believe or not to believe, to love and to laugh, in the name of my country, france, in the name of all the countries of the european union and of the whole world which have seen human beings fall because they were in the wrong place at the wrong time, because they believed in another beyond or not, because their job was to protect us or because they were, in the eyes of cowardly murderers, the standard-bearers of our values, i affirm with the millions of citizens who stood up in paris, in the cities and towns of france, and in the villages of the entire planet, yesterday and the days before, that we will never give in. because europe was built on the rejection of the horrors of other times. because terror must be met with more democracy and more rule of law. because diversity is fruitful when tolerance and solidarity are its standards. because like here today, when a misfortune befalls one of their own, the others come together. we will not allow anyone to divide us, either in the union or in our nations. yes, we are all charlie. that charlie is so gaulish, always satirical, so free. they fell with others under bullets that no god ever commanded. but their ideals will live on because they are the reason we are together: the rejection of fear, of the other, of hatred, of barbarism. the ideal that the victims of terrorism cherished is ours: democracy. let us be proud of it, let us defend it and let us give an outstanding sakharov prize to charlie hebdo. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr minister, we welcome the strong solidarity of the peoples of europe and the world with the french people, who are in mourning but standing firm in the face of the executions of journalists, police officers and citizens of the jewish faith, many of whom are my personal friends. yesterday, in every town and village, the people of france, united, gathered to build a front, a solid barrier against fundamentalist fundamentalism, against barbarism. and he did so with the full knowledge that elsewhere in the world, from baghdad to kabul, from aleppo to kobane, the same terror is flooding the streets with blood. they and those who were murdered were murdered for what they stood for. some of the jewish religion, the police the public service of the french republic, and our friends journalists because they represented the free spirit and boldness, the refusal of the spirit of barracks. in the interests of the ideals of these executed friends, we must avoid any political recovery and think about working more on ways of avoiding this, on effective ways of eradicating terrorism. clearly, the war spirit does not permit it. what has been the result of 15 years of war on terrorism? we must do things differently and have a plan for co-development, dialogue with the peoples of the near and middle east. the long-standing refusal to give the palestinian national movement a chance to make a difference has only added to the wounds of humiliation. the debate will certainly also be between the dialectic of freedom and that of security. we cannot sacrifice security on the altar of freedom. we cannot sacrifice freedom on the altar of security. the two must live and progress together. we have a responsibility to build new bridges with the mediterranean for a new type of dialogue and cooperation while drying up the financing of terrorist networks. finally, we cannot leave, as is the case today, so many abandoned neighbourhoods, children, adolescents in distress, young people without a future. that is why we must move away from austerity and give financial support to schools, culture, sport, training, early childhood, employment and urban development. this should make us think at the same time. it is imperative that we break with the amalgamations, the divisive and hateful rhetoric that has been spreading for months. on the contrary, it is the spirit of popular unity that must prevail, the spirit of debate, the rejection of exclusion in order to build a common society, a common europe. france said yesterday that its spirit of brotherhood, of living together against barbarism, let us be worthy of it! (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my thoughts our thoughts are with the 17 victims, artists and journalists defending freedom of expression, police officers, jews, christians, atheists and muslims, and with their families and loved ones. my thoughts are with the millions of citizens in france, europe and the world who have expressed their grief and support, and who reminded us again yesterday that the camp of fear and hatred has not won. however, in the aftermath of these attacks, in the wake of this immense shock in france and europe, we must still be careful not to fall into a double trap. the trap of the fanatics behind these terrible attacks, but also the trap of the demagogues of all stripes who see the events of the last few days as a declaration of war by islam on the rest of the planet. just as we will not accept a war of civilizations, we will not accept the disgusting amalgamations practiced by identity and nationalist movements throughout europe. another trap is looming, namely that of seeing our public freedoms drowned under a new arsenal of security under the pretext of fighting terrorism. remember the response of the united states after 9/11, the patriot act led to many deviations that endangered the rights and freedoms of citizens as far as europe, like the scandal of prisons and the secret cia flights. let us not fall into that trap. we cannot protect human rights by denying them, we cannot protect freedom by denying it, as mr schulz said. let us take action against the stigmatisation and discrimination of children in europe on the basis of their religion, their name, their origin or the neighbourhood in which they live. let us stop this spiral where the predicted failure of our youth is transformed for all into despair and for some into hatred and barbarism. as we prepare a european investment plan, let us take the opportunity to give priority to education, training and public services for these millions of young people, let us give europe's children more love and less hate as was illustrated, not long ago, on the cover of charlie hebdo magazine. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank the brotherly peoples of europe who have felt for the past five days in communion with the french people and have paid tribute with us to all those lives destroyed. i believe the first duty we have to the victims is to put a name to what killed them. it wasn't terrorism that killed them. terrorism is one way. it was islamic fundamentalism that killed them. it is this deadly ideology that has caused so much death and so much misery in the last five days, but is doing so much in the world by the thousands today, as we speak. our societies, our countries are under attack because our values are being disrespected by fundamentalists. we must also face up to it. our values, the foremost of which is, of course, freedom. mr mezri haddad, former tunisian ambassador to unesco, denounced in a forum a few days ago the laxity, the angelicization and the conformism of the past thirty years, which have been written by concessions to the supporters of an identity-based, holistic and totalitarian islam in the name of republican democracy and tolerance. it called for self-criticism. that's what we need to do, self-criticism. is europe capable of protecting us, the peoples of europe, from the threat of islamic fundamentalism? can the total opening of our national borders be a means of controlling fundamentalists who cross the borders in one direction or the other? is it not the austerity economic policies that have collapsed our response capabilities and disarmed our police, intelligence and military? these are all questions we'll have to ask ourselves. as for me, my religion is done: let the nations defend themselves. (applause from the right)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in paris and throughout europe and indeed the world, millions of us said: 'we are not afraid. we are here to defend our values against the attack on freedom of expression, on living together". we say it: we want to stay together. that will is an opportunity. after the fear we experienced yesterday, we experienced unity in diversity and demonstrated the desire to continue the adventure together. more than ever, let us build europe together, an inclusive europe in which everyone has a place, a europe in which no one can be threatened because he is a journalist, because he is a jew, because he is a muslim, a policeman or a migrant. some fear amalgamation, others fear for their safety. such fear is understandable in view of the last days, but we must tell them loud and clear: "we are all together. there's no need to be afraid. we need everyone to build the future of our society". and i end by quoting a mexican proverb: "they wanted to bury us; they did not know that we were seeds, seeds of freedom, seeds of democracy". then let's take responsibility for it.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, as a frenchman i would like to thank you for your participation in the historic event in paris and for the sensible and correct words which it inspired you to say. i would also like to thank mr juncker for his heartfelt words. mr president-in-office of the council, we agree with you when you say that during this six-month period the most useful thing you have done for europe was the reforms carried out in italy itself. other governments, including my own, could be inspired by your courage. the european record itself is not quite at the level of the verbal ambitions that were originally displayed. i shall simply mention two ambiguous results. first, the budget. yes, the union has a budget for 2015, but the backlog of 25 billion unpaid bills will prevent the european commission from launching any new policies this year. secondly, the control of the mediterranean. we salute the performance and courage of the italian navy with operation mare nostrum. triton succeeded him, but has no money and may be less effective in rescuing shipwrecked people and controlling the migratory pressure. in both cases, the substantive issues were simply postponed. (the president agreed to answer two 'blue card' questions) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i will tell the two speakers that unlike them, i am not a european federalist. i therefore consider that what happened in greece, luxembourg and other european countries during those six months was not a matter for the european union or the italian presidency, but for each of the countries concerned. i would also say that any criticism of italian policy should not be directed at the european parliament but at the italian prime minister who is here.
in writing. the italian presidency, which was supposed to have "great ambitions", came to an end on 12 january 2015 without any real progress for europe. it was to be expected... matteo renzi, however, said in july 2014 that europe must make a "change of face to regain its soul". we were promised to loosen the grip of austerity by giving more flexibility to the eurozone member states. we were also told about the great recovery plan planned by the juncker commission. last spring the idea of including public investment in the calculation of deficits disappeared altogether, succumbing to german wishes. it is clear that this decision is not likely to promote growth, which is already suffering in the euro area. i also forgot about my net neutrality project or the origin labelling of products and the extra money for youth employment. the italian presidency has nevertheless succeeded in setting up 'operation triton', a new straw man operation opening the door to uncontrolled mass immigration for the sole benefit of mafia networks of smugglers.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today, if a member state prohibits the cultivation of a gmo on its territory, it is systematically condemned by the court of justice of the european union following a complaint by monsanto. the agreement reached on 3 december in the trilogue is a game changer. it is important to remember this in this debate. without this agreement, we would have maintained the current situation, where the european commission authorises the cultivation of a gmo because of the absence of a common position in the council. this situation could not continue. it systematically put the member states who want to say no to gmos, like france, in the wrong. in this long and difficult negotiation in the face of a council that is not very flexible, we have succeeded, together with frédérique ries - our rapporteur, whom i would like to congratulate - in strengthening the protection of consumers, farmers and the member states. this directive means more safety for member states opposed to gmos. from spring 2015, member states will be able to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territories on environmental, agricultural and socioeconomic grounds. this means more security for farmers who favour conventional or organic crops. within two years, member states will take measures to prevent contamination of traditional crops by gm crops in cross-border areas. this means greater security for european consumers. the european commission has committed to review and strengthen the rules for risk assessment by the european food safety authority within two years. in another victory for european consumers, we have convinced the commission not to grant any new authorizations for the cultivation of gmos before the entry into force of this directive. it was a hard fight that was fought and we got there. i think we have won, but this directive is only the beginning. it is a good start, but we must continue the fight against gmos.
madam president, gmos as they are imposed on us by the agrochemical multinationals, the united states and the european union are unacceptable and dangerous. on the one hand, the investment required to set up a new gmo plant is high. therefore, this technology may lead to a decrease in the number of plant varieties grown. and diversity is agriculture's best asset against the problems of disease and pests. on the other hand, the vast majority of gmos are roundup ready varieties. crops can be sprayed with roundup, a highly toxic weed killer for wildlife and plants as well as humans. other gm plants secrete pesticides themselves. some of these pesticides are therefore likely to be ingested by consumers. it should be noted that the amount of roundup residues tolerated in soybeans was increased fourfold in the united states in 1997 to allow the sale of gm soybeans. roundup is a potentially very dangerous carcinogen. consumer health appears to be an adjustment variable here. finally, farmers must replenish their stocks of gm seeds each year; they are enslaved, not liberated by this technology. the new directive you want us to vote on is a trap. you're going to give states a little bit of sovereignty back by allowing them to allow or ban a gmo on their territory. however, as a result of the principle of free movement, french supermarkets will increasingly welcome gmo products from other eu countries on their shelves. french consumers will therefore be increasingly exposed to gmos despite their strong opposition to this technique. the compulsory labelling of food containing gmos - unfortunately not visible on the packaging - will be the last line of defence against those who intend to impose them without limitation, in particular through the eu/us free trade agreement. as usual, you are therefore legislating against the will of the people on a crucial issue, thus favouring the interests of the multinational agrochemical companies at the expense of the health of consumers and farmers, of the diversity of crops and by denying a fundamental principle: we must feed without making people sick.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs frédérique ries, and our fictitious rapporteur, mrs elisabeth köstinger, and to thank mr la via for the important role he has played in these negotiations. until now we have had a system without a head or tail, which by its complexity discouraged research and innovation in the biotechnology sector and, on the other hand, brought member states - such as france - which are hostile to the cultivation of gmos to justice. we have a compromise - after five years - which offers freedom of choice and, at the same time, greater legal certainty. what is important to me is that the evaluation of gm seeds and their safety for human health should be based on a scientific approach and not be subject to purely ideological debates. secondly, member states are obliged to adopt coexistence measures in cross-border areas to avoid contamination of traditional crops by gm crops. i have fought for this because i believe that farmers should be able to remain free to choose their crops. this compromise is certainly not the outcome we could have dreamed of for the gmo issue. i would have preferred a genuinely european solution to the impasse, but since the best is often the enemy of the good, i am calling on everyone to take responsibility for establishing a stable legal framework for gm crops in europe.
in writing. for several years we have been debating how to deal with the introduction or rejection of gmos in the european union. until recently, our differences prevented any possibility of agreement. we cannot be satisfied with fragmented and uncoordinated procedures. we now have the opportunity to provide a clear framework for the private, public and associative actors in this sector. i think this opportunity should be seized. however, in the absence of agreement on the content, we have had to restrict ourselves to the content: no decision on the advisability of gmos is left to the member states, this european text will ultimately be purely procedural. it would be wrong to make this agreement a precedent in other areas which in the longer term would risk draining the law and policies of the european union of its substance.
in writing. the health of the people of europe is not negotiable. we cannot cause a disruption of our food and environment. behind this text of technical reforms is an attempt to develop genetically modified organisms in europe. in addition to the health risks, gmos are a means of controlling agriculture by agro-food groups via patented seeds. will the european parliament be the relay for the international economic oligarchies? the hypocrisy of this text is striking. while the member states are to have new tools in the authorisation of gm crops, the text does not call into question the restrictions on the most basic freedoms of the states. what would it mean to ban the cultivation of gmos in one country if it is impossible to ban the circulation of gmos grown in another member state? one of the first forms of sovereignty of a state is control of all flows that pass through it. this text maintains supranational oversight of the states, whereas the standards and evaluation procedures are not satisfactory. i am aware that security has a price, but we cannot sell our peoples' food security and the independence of their agriculture.
in writing. the production of genetically modified organisms (gmos) is a sensitive and controversial issue within the european union (eu). the negotiations to provide the eu with a suitable and modern legislative framework have been under way for five years but have been hampered by significant differences of opinion. the compromise reached by the union will allow member states who wish to grow gmos and those who do not wish to do so to ban them legally. in practice, the authorisation application procedure is clearer and more transparent: a company applying for authorisation to grow genetically modified crops must nevertheless, after the authorisation of the european food safety authority, obtain that of the member state which will host the crops on its soil. i would also like to stress that, as regards crossborder areas, the agreement reached obliges the member states to adopt coexistence measures to avoid contamination of traditional crops by gm crops. in the end, this system is not perfect, but it does allow us to get out of a deadlock. it will be important to ensure that a european solution is found in the medium term.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it will allow 34 eu vessels access to são toméan waters (28 tuna vessels and 6 surface longliners). the compensation seems reasonable since it amounts to eur 710 000 for the first three years and eur 675 000 for the fourth year. this is all the more so since these sums include eur 325 000 per year for supporting são tomé and príncipe's sectoral policy (support for small-scale fishing, combating illegal fishing, monitoring and control).
in writing. the renewal of the fisheries protocol between the republic of são tomé and príncipe and the european union allows for a mutually beneficial relationship. i voted in favour of this text because the countries of europe benefit from this supplementary reserve and because the european presence in this region is an element of stability that is part of the long term.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation because this support meets the objectives of the national fisheries policy, and in particular the needs of the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe with regard to support for small-scale fisheries and the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. this protocol sets out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. the protocol, which entered into force in may 2014 for a period of four years, is intended to allow 34 eu vessels to fish there. in return, são tomé and príncipe will receive eur 2 805 000 over the entire four-year period (this may be increased if the annual catch exceeds the annual reference tonnage). i therefore voted in favour of this text, which seems fair and balanced.
in writing. the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe is part of the network of agreements on tuna fishing in west africa. in particular, it allows 28 tuna seiners and 6 longliners to fish in the são toméan eez. while we approve the agreement in principle, we are deeply concerned about the many illegal fishing activities in the gulf of guinea. the european union should immediately step up the traceability of its imports of fishery resources from countries suspected of covering up illegal fishing activities, given the democratic republic of são tomé's weak capacity to monitor its territorial waters. i therefore voted with reservations in favour of the european parliament's recommendations to the commission, which aim at transparency in all stages of the procedures relating to the protocol and its renewal.
in writing. the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe is one of the union's tuna agreements in west africa. it allows eu vessels to fish in the waters of that country. this agreement is beneficial to both parties as it allows the development of the european market for fishery products and the sectoral development of fisheries in são tomé and príncipe. the rapporteur stresses that the european commission must do more to monitor the principles necessary for the proper absorption of aid, while respecting the sovereignty and legitimate choices and priorities of são tomé and príncipe. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which opens up new prospects for our fishermen. it will allow 34 eu vessels to access são toméan waters (28 tuna vessels and 6 surface longliners). it also supports small-scale fishing, which i am very fond of because it values traditional know-how, which guarantees quality fishing. the text also provides for the fight against illegal fishing, which is a necessary measure for the preservation of our ecosystem.
in writing. this report proposes the ratification of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. this important agreement, which will run for four years, is part of the network of agreements on tuna fishing in west africa. it allows for the development of support for the local fishing sector in exchange for access for european union vessels to fish part of the fisheries surplus in são toméan waters. it is a balanced agreement and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. thanks to its network of tuna fisheries agreements in west africa, eu vessels can fish in the waters of a number of countries in the region, including the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. with the adoption of the new protocol between the european union and são tomé and príncipe, the european union is rightly maintaining its vessels' access to tuna-rich waters, while ensuring that this access is remunerated at fair value. the purpose of this remuneration is, inter alia, to support the sectoral policy of são tomé and príncipe.
in writing. this agreement between the union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe will improve access control to the exclusive economic zone (eez) concerned by increasing the presence of observers. this will eventually facilitate the monitoring of tuna catches and fisheries in this area, an activity with a high environmental stake. the preservation of natural and animal resources is a prerequisite for sustainable development in the field of local economic activities. for these reasons i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. i will vote in favour of this proposal because this agreement is in the well-understood interests of both parties. on the one hand, it will allow 34 european union vessels access to são toméan waters. among these vessels are 12 french tuna vessels. the european union also provides equal compensation to são tomé: eur 710 000 for the first three years and eur 675 000 for the fourth year. this includes eur 325 000 per year for supporting sectoral policy, which will support small-scale fishing and combat illegal fishing. finally, shipowners will pay 35 euros per tonne for the first two years, 60 euros for the third year and 70 euros for the fourth year. it seems that none of the parties is therefore harmed, even if the rapporteur stresses that the results achieved so far in sectoral policy are insufficient. in particular, we should improve our knowledge of fish stocks, but above all we should support the development of são tomé's own monitoring capabilities. it is only then that this agreement could really be part of a sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. the renewal of the fisheries protocol between the republic of são tomé and príncipe allows for a mutually beneficial relationship. i voted in favour of this text because the countries of europe benefit from this supplementary reserve and because the european presence in this region is an element of stability that is part of the long term.
in writing. i voted in favour of the ferreira report on the fisheries agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe (an archipelago in the gulf of guinea). the report is to enable the new fisheries protocol to be adopted, allowing eu vessels to fish in the country's waters for a period of four years. i supported this report because i believe that the agreement in question benefits both parties by allowing european vessels to fish certain surplus resources in a regulated environment, while providing sectoral financial support for the development of sustainable fisheries in são toméan waters.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which allows the adoption of the new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe for a period of four years. the new protocol will allow 34 eu vessels to fish in the area, with an annual financial contribution of eur 710 000 for the first three years and eur 675 000 for the fourth year.
in writing. i voted for this text, which i thought was fair and just. the fishing opportunities and financial compensation provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe are in question. the protocol, which has been in force since may 2014 and will last for four years, authorises 34 vessels from eu member states to fish in the area. in exchange for this authorization, the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe will have to receive eur 2 805 000 over a predefined period of four years (an upward revaluation may of course be considered if the annual quantity of catches exceeds the annual reference tonnage determined).
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which authorises the implementation of a new fisheries partnership between the eu and são tomé and príncipe. this partnership is beneficial for all parties: it allows 34 european union vessels to access the tuna resources of são tomé and príncipe's waters in return for the payment of fees that will be used to develop and structure the local fishing industry.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which allows a limited number of european tuna vessels to fish in the waters of são tomé and príncipe in return for european funding to support the country's sectoral policy. this type of fisheries agreement is a reasonable way of supporting the development of african countries while limiting overfishing in the oceans.
in writing. the protocol between the european union and são tomé and príncipe will allow fishermen from the member states to enter the territorial waters of that country. as long as fisheries resources are preserved, it is good that vessels can extend their area of activity within a well-defined framework. i therefore vote in favour of this protocol.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of extending a mechanism allowing tuna fishing in the waters of the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. as this agreement allows both sustainable resource management and the extension of a development agreement in consultation with the republic, i am voting in favour.
in writing. this agreement will provide a legal framework for a historic practice of seychelles vessels, all while respecting the common fisheries policy. so i voted in favour. its implementation will allow seychelles fishing vessels access to mayotte's waters and biological resources. in return, the shipowners will pay fees which will benefit mayotte in the context of the financing of its port infrastructure.
in writing. the island of mayotte has recently become a french department and as such there is a need to regularize relations with france's neighbours in this region, in this case the republic of seychelles, through clearer suspension and surveillance procedures. the aim is also to maintain fishing activities which are essential to the economies of the two territories. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation because it is beneficial to the economic development of mayotte and the seychelles and it respects the rules of the common fisheries policy and the iotc on conservation of the resource.
in writing. this agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles is intended to allow fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles access to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte, which fall within the jurisdiction of the eu. since mayotte became an outermost region of the eu in 2014, its exclusive economic zone (eez) has been part of eu waters, indicating a loss of sovereignty for france in the use of this zone. this agreement nevertheless allows a limited number of vessels flying the flag of the seychelles, which have a historical tradition of fishing in mayotte's waters, to continue their activities and i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. traditionally, vessels flying the flag of seychelles have fished in mayotte's waters. this french territory became an outermost region of the eu at the beginning of the year and the exclusive economic zone of mayotte has since been made community under the common fisheries policy. following the change of status, an agreement was negotiated to allow a limited number of seychelles vessels to fish in the exclusive economic zone. an agreement provides for the payment of a financial counterpart by each vessel. these fees will be collected by france and redistributed to mayotte. these are to be devoted in particular to port infrastructure and to the control and marketing of products, in the framework of the sustainable tuna fisheries partnership agreement, which entered into force on 10 may 2003 between the european union and the republic of seychelles. i therefore voted in favour of the report by alain cadec, which proposes to approve the agreement.
in writing. a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa) governs relations between the european union and the republic of seychelles in the field of fisheries. it should be recalled that, according to article 3 tfeu, the conservation of fisheries resources is an exclusive competence of the union, a competence whose legitimacy we formally contest, since it constitutes an essential element of the territorial maritime sovereignty of france. however, in the best interests of the economic development of mayotte and in particular of the fishing sector, i support this agreement because the fees paid by the seychelles shipowners will be directly redistributed to mayotte. the fishing industry in the mahora is still very small-scale and employs some 5 000 people. rather than opening up fishing grounds to large industrial tuna vessels, it is better to encourage cooperation in the archipelago and to use the fees wisely to enable the mahora fishermen to improve their fishing equipment while preserving their artisanal know-how. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution approving the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. my report on the agreement allowing seychelles vessels access to part of the exclusive economic zone of mayotte was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament. this agreement is a strong signal for mayotte, which has become the 101st french department. the fees paid by the shipowners will be redistributed for the development of fisheries and aquaculture in mayotte, particularly as regards port infrastructure. i have received assurances from the french government that this money will be redistributed entirely to the mahora fisheries sector. the other part of the economic zone is reserved for local fisheries in order to preserve the small-scale mahora fishery, which is therefore french. this agreement allows sustainable fishing because it respects the rules on the good management and conservation of tuna resources as well as the rules of the common fisheries policy. in the context of the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, this agreement strengthens the credibility of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement which should allow seychelles fishing vessels access to mayotte's waters and biological resources. the aim is to give a legal framework to a historical practice of seychelles vessels, all in accordance with the cfp. the main task of the legislator should always be to promote the customs and traditions of the people, where they are respectful of the common good.
in writing. this report proposes ratification of the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles granting access to eight seychelles fishing vessels and two seychelles supply vessels to part of the exclusive economic zone of mayotte under the jurisdiction of the european union. this is a balanced ratio, since in exchange for access to the mahour waters, seychelles vessels pay fees which will be reimbursed in full for the development of fisheries and aquaculture in mayotte, including port infrastructure. in addition, the remainder of the economic zone is preserved as it is reserved for small-scale mahora fisheries and the development of mahora fishing infrastructure. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. since 31 march 2011, the department of mayotte has officially become the 101st department of france and its fifth overseas department. as the european union has also become an outermost region, it is now important, through this balanced text, to conclude an agreement between the european union and the seychelles on access for seychelles fishing vessels to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte. in return, shipowners will have to pay fees, which are a particularly necessary source of revenue to enable this department, which is in a difficult economic and social situation, to comply with the rules of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. since 1 january 2014, mayotte, the 101st french department, is an ultra-peripheral region (urr) that is an integral part of the european union. as such, its exclusive economic zone, i.e. the maritime space over which a coastal state exercises sovereign rights in the exploration and use of resources, is now community-wide under the common fisheries policy. with the change of status, an agreement between the republic of seychelles and the european union was to be negotiated to allow a limited number of vessels flying the flag of seychelles and having a long history of fishing in mayotte waters to continue fishing activities in the mahoura eez in accordance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. this agreement will preserve the special relations which the european union has with the republic of seychelles.
in writing. mayotte has recently become a french department and, as such, it is necessary to regularize relations with france's neighbours in this region, in this case the republic of seychelles, through clearer suspension and surveillance procedures. it is also a question of maintaining fishing activities which are essential to the economies of the two territories, which is why i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. i will vote in favour of seychelles fishing vessels having access to mayotte's waters and biological resources. in reality, this agreement formalises a historical practice of seychelles vessels, even though it is an exceptional one in that it allows a third country to fish in french waters. however, it concerns only a limited number of vessels flying the flag of seychelles, namely 8 tuna vessels and 2 supply vessels. in addition, shipowners pay redistributed fees to mayotte which will increase from eur 110 to eur 125 per tonne caught in 6 years. these charges will be used to develop the port infrastructure of mayotte, which needs them to develop. however, as the rapporteur has also pointed out, it is regrettable that local mahora fishermen are only allowed to fish from 0 to 24 miles off the coast, whereas seychelles vessels are only allowed to fish from 24 to 100 miles. it is to be hoped that the development of mayotte's port infrastructure will eventually allow the mahora fishery to replace the seychelles fishery. this is the basis on which we will judge the system at the mid-term review in three years' time.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by my colleague alain cadec concerning access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters of mayotte, which has been an integral part of the european union since 1 january 2014. i believe that this agreement should benefit both parties and i welcome the commitment to pay the fees in full for the development of local maori fisheries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the agreement between the european union and the seychelles on access for fishing vessels flying the flag of the seychelles to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte, which fall within the jurisdiction of the european union. the agreement provides for access for eight seychelles fishing vessels and two seychelles supply vessels to part of the exclusive economic zone of mayotte, in compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. the fees paid by the shipowners will be redistributed to mayotte in order to meet the sectoral needs of the island.
in writing. i voted for this project because it safeguards the interests of france and its overseas department of mayotte. it limits the right of the republic of seychelles to fish in the waters of the mahora to eight vessels, in accordance with the old custom. and it provides that the owners of these ships will pay a royalty to france.
in writing. this agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles authorises fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to access the waters, and thus the marine biological resources, of mayotte, which fall directly under the jurisdiction of the eu. since mayotte became an outermost region of the european union in 2014, its exclusive economic zone (eez) has been part of eu waters. it is worth noting that france's national sovereignty is once again being violated. however, in form this agreement concerns only a very limited number of vessels flying the flag of the seychelles, which have always been used to fishing in mayotte's waters. this is the continuation of a historical tradition. so in order not to penalize these activities, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows 10 fishing vessels from the republic of seychelles to access the exclusive economic zone (eez) of mayotte to fish for migratory species. it is a balanced agreement, with clauses that promote local development and reserve the 0-24 mile zone for the mahoran fishery.
in writing. the eu-seychelles fisheries agreement dates from 2003 and has been renewed twice since then. the report aims to increase the access of seychelles vessels - eight tuna vessels and two tankers - to mayotte's waters, which have become european waters since the island's partition in 2014, in compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy, while increasing the revenue generated for mayotte from eur 110 to eur 125 per tonne caught. i voted in favour of this report, which is beneficial for the development of both parties, but especially for mayotte, which has been granted 24 nautical miles reserved for its fisheries.
in writing. this agreement is mutually beneficial and will allow for the rational use of mayotte's waters without prejudice to the territorial sovereignty of france, of which mayotte is now a department. on the contrary, it will be beneficial to the local economy and employment. so i voted for it.
in writing. the change in the status of the island of mayotte has made it possible to communalise this area where seychelles tuna fishermen are accustomed to fishing in the waters. the agreement thus follows a precedent, while taking account of the island's changed status. it should be noted that certain provisions allow the compliance of the parties to this agreement with the rules of the agreement and the respect of the rule of law and fundamental rights to be monitored. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. as i have always been opposed to any enlargement of the european union, i voted against this text, which is only an adaptation of protocols to euro-mediterranean agreements following the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union.
in writing. the front national opposes any enlargement of the european union, which is helping to transform what should be nothing more than cooperation between sovereign states into a sprawling monster devouring nations. the national front therefore opposed the enlargement of the union to include romania and bulgaria. it is therefore logical that i oppose the consequences of this enlargement, including the agreement which is the subject of this recommendation, namely the ec/tunisia euro-mediterranean agreement to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it strengthens cooperation between the european union and the republic of tunisia.
in writing. this protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and tunisia, of the other part, must take account of the accession to the european union of bulgaria and romania in the meantime. initially signed in 1995, it aims to liberalise trade in goods, services and capital between eu member states and tunisia. it also needs to strengthen cooperation in order to "promote the development and prosperity of tunisia and the tunisian people". i am opposed to the total liberalization of trade, which often creates unfair competition for my country, france, and i have therefore voted against this recommendation.
in writing. the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities is intended to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. this formal protocol is a direct result of the european union's enlargement policy. the euro-mediterranean agreement will therefore be extended to bulgaria and romania. i am not only against the euro-mediterranean agreement but also against the policy of enlargement of the european union, but i abstained on this vote because i consider it to be a technical detail.
in writing. the european union and tunisia are two very important political and economic partners. the eu has always supported the interest of close cooperation with tunisia in the implementation of democratic reforms and economic modernisation. with the accession of bulgaria and romania to the union in 2007, all international agreements, commercial or otherwise, must be extended to these new member states via a protocol. i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of adapting the european legislative framework to the structural changes taking place in the union.
in writing. i preferred to abstain on this text. it is true that this is a legal adjustment to a factual situation, since romania and bulgaria, as member states, must be bound by the same rights and obligations as the others. however, i was not in favour of these two countries joining the european union. the latter, out of pure ideology, is continuing the race for enlargement without any realist or pragmatic approach: the new members, as we know, are greedy for european subsidies; in these times of crisis in the euro area, it was not wise to continue the policy of enlargement. when the house is on fire, you don't bother to redo the paintings. finally, i am not in favour of euro-mediterranean association agreements as a whole, since they help to make europe a passive organization, both in terms of the free movement of people and of capital and goods. our markets and industries are thus subject to often unfair competition from cheaper labour through the mechanism of social dumping. the european parliament, because it is supposed to represent the interests of the citizens who elected it, cannot therefore endorse such policies against the welfare of the peoples of europe.
in writing. the mediterranean agreement between the european union and tunisia signed in 1995 was the first of a series of cooperation treaties between the two shores of the mediterranean, forming the euro-mediterranean partnership. the accession of the new member states of the union to the euro-mediterranean agreement should be decided by means of a protocol to that agreement. as bulgaria and romania joined the european union in 2007, it is appropriate that, as members of the european union, those two countries become parties to the union-tunisia agreement. for these reasons i voted in favour of the conclusion and adoption of this protocol.
in writing. initiated by the barcelona process in 1995, the euro-mediterranean partnership between the european union and the southern mediterranean countries has taken the form of association agreements with the mediterranean partner countries. there is a euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union in 2007 thus requires the adoption of a protocol to the agreement, to take account of the accession of these two member states.
in writing. the front national opposes any enlargement of the european union, which is helping to transform what should be nothing more than cooperation between sovereign states into a sprawling monster devouring nations. the national front therefore opposed the enlargement of the union to include romania and bulgaria. it is therefore logical that i oppose the consequences of this enlargement, including the agreement which is the subject of this recommendation, namely the ec/tunisia euro-mediterranean agreement to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu.
in writing. i supported the report on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the union. since that agreement was concluded before the enlargement of the union to include bulgaria and romania, i.e. before 1 january 2007, it is therefore necessary to add a new protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement to take account of the accession of those two new member states to the initial agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this purely technical text which adapts the euro-mediterranean agreement with tunisia to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu.
in writing. although this is only a technical revision of an agreement dating back to 1995, i do not believe that the fully free trade oriented approach of this partnership is favourable to tunisia, which has experienced a considerable increase in its debt as a result of imf loans following the adoption of the agreement with the eu.
in writing. i am firmly opposed to the euro-mediterranean agreement which does not allow for healthy relations with the mediterranean countries. these agreements should be bilateral between states wishing to develop their relations and not be governed by a supranational body. i therefore voted against the extension of the protocol.
in writing. the euro-mediterranean association agreement is an important policy of the european union to strengthen the european union's links with the entire mediterranean region. in this context, the agreement allows the integration of bulgaria and romania following their accession to the european union. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which gives the green light to the conclusion of an additional protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between tunisia and the european union. signed in 1998, this agreement is regularly updated to take account of the accession of new member states to the european union. in this case, it was the enlargement to include bulgaria and romania. under this association agreement, tunisia and the european union maintain a regular dialogue on political and security matters and cooperate on economic, trade and financial, as well as social, cultural and educational matters. i support such association agreements which help to spread the fundamental principles of the european union and encourage cooperation and the development of peaceful relations with neighbouring countries.
in writing. in 1995, tunisia was the first mediterranean country to sign an association agreement with the european union. this agreement, which was concluded with the then dictator ben ali, provided for political, cultural, economic and social cooperation. it also announced the launch of negotiations on a free trade agreement. today, it is a purely technical protocol to take account of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu in 2007. since then, the tunisian revolution has been through this. the protocol could therefore have been an opportunity for the eu and its member states to take account of the challenges of the democratic transition in that country and the urgency of the economic and social situation. but this is not the case, because the eu has chosen to pursue its policies which increase debt, make financial aid conditional on ever greater liberalism and, beyond words, refuse any mobility agreement. this technical agreement is not the place to fight this battle. i therefore chose to abstain in support of the sole principle of eu-tunisia relations.
in writing. the european economic and social committee is an inefficient institution and a superfluous item of expenditure for the european union. i am opposed to the procedures which maintain this budgetary burden. i have therefore voted against the opening of this consultation.
in writing. i voted against this item on a request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport policy, as i question the legitimacy of the eesc. moreover, marine le pen and five other colleagues from our european coordination tabled a motion for a european resolution on 17 december last seeking to abolish the european economic and social committee, considering that a large part of these activities do not correspond to the fundamental mission of this institution and that part of the work is already done in parliament and could be made concrete by direct contacts between the european institutions and the representatives of civil society, employers or workers.
in writing. i voted against the consultation of the european economic and social committee, whose legitimacy, usefulness and cost to the european taxpayer of maintaining such bodies i question.
in writing. the european economic and social committee is a veritable gas factory whose legitimacy i question. i also supported the motion for a resolution (b8-0400/2014) tabled by marine le pen, matteo salvini, marcel de graaff, harald vilimsky and gerolf annemans, calling for the abolition of the european economic and social council and article 13 (4) of the treaty on european union. faced with a serious crisis of payments, the european union must implement a real plan of budgetary savings, starting with the abolition of institutions that are strictly useless, if not technocrat, disconnected from reality. that is why i voted against the consultation of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. the european parliament is preparing an own-initiative report on the implementation of the white paper on transport policy, published by the european commission in 2011. this own-initiative report aims to assess the extent to which the actions announced in 2011 have been implemented and to identify the next steps to be taken, in particular with regard to sustainable mobility. the european parliament, pursuant to rule 137 of its rules of procedure, asks the european economic and social committee to deliver an opinion on this report. in the interests of continuing dialogue with civil society and european economic and social actors, i voted in favour of this consultation, which will enrich the content of the own-initiative report prepared by the parliament's committee on transport and tourism.
in writing. on 28 march 2011, the european commission published its white paper entitled 'roadmap for a single european transport area towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system'. in an own-initiative report on the implementation of this white paper, i voted in favour of consulting the european economic and social committee (eesc), the european union body that allows civil society organisations to express their views at european level. the eesc's consultation will help to enrich the debate on european transport policy.
in writing. the european economic and social committee is an inefficient institution and a superfluous item of expenditure for the european union. i am opposed to the procedures which maintain this budgetary burden. i have therefore voted against the opening of this consultation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request for consultation on the european economic and social committee on an own-initiative report of the european parliament on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport policy. parliament has the possibility of asking the eesc to give its opinion on parliament's own-initiative reports, in order to ensure continuity in its political position. i welcome the positive result of the vote.
in writing. i supported the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the own-initiative report presented in the parliament's committee on transport entitled 'implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport policy: the point and the way forward for sustainable mobility'. requests to consult the european economic and social committee are governed by rule 137 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which provides for the consultation of the european economic and social committee (eesc) on the own-initiative report entitled 'implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: review and way forward for sustainable mobility'. representatives of employers' and employees' associations and other european interest groups will thus be able to express themselves freely and transparently on the future of european transport policy. this is a major and cross-cutting issue which combines employment issues with environmental requirements.
in writing. the economic and social committee is one of those institutions which do little good and cost a fortune, whether at regional, national or european level. i therefore voted against the consultation of the european economic and social committee.
in writing. i am formally opposed to the consultation of bodies whose legitimacy i question, namely the european economic and social committee.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the trilogue reached on the night of 3 to 4 december is a minimum agreement which allows the member states to prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their soil. i am not going to go into the details of the text, but i would like to make a few comments on the text. this is not the first phase of a sovereign political response to the gmo question but the last very symbolic concession to the states as a handout. the problem of gmos is a food safety problem. nothing is said about the ability of states to impose traceability and labelling of gm food wherever it is produced. the problem of gmos is a problem of contamination of other crops. there is no mention of the risk of cross-border contamination from a state which refuses to allow gmos to be grown on its soil. finally, the problem of gmos is even a civilization problem in that it is a tool in the hands of very powerful firms to manipulate the living for immediate profit. we have no debate beyond the prosaic aspect when this debate is taking place elsewhere, notably in russia.
madam president, the text proposed to us is a trojan horse, because under the guise of restoring freedom to the states, it is handing over our people, consumers and farmers to the agrochemical multinationals. the effects of gmos on the health of our fellow citizens and on the flora and fauna are already known and unacceptable. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. to serve who? not the people, but the shareholders of a few publicly traded companies, when we already know that it is possible to feed humanity without gmos. the key is to make the right political choices. the gmos imposed on us by this text are incompatible with any food sovereignty. that sovereignty is to the people what freedom is to the individual. we need to be able to choose and grow what we want to eat at home and have our children eat what is safe for our health. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. despite the fact that this directive will allow france to ban the planting of gmos on national soil, i did not vote in favour of this text, as it will not protect the french from the consumption of gm food. in the european free trade area it will be impossible to assure our fellow citizens that genetically modified food will not end up on their plates. neighbouring exporting countries within the eu may have chosen to use gmos themselves and resell them in all eu countries, including those that have chosen to boycott them.
in writing. the agreement we are voting on today allows member states who wish to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their own territory to do so. their decision to restrict or prohibit such crops will benefit from greater legal certainty and will avoid the systematic use of moratoriums which can be challenged at any time by litigation. thanks to the action of the european parliament, the text also provides for several other improvements. as requested since 2008, the commission will have to update the legislation on environmental risk assessment of gmos within 2 years. coexistence measures at the border between two states, one of which would allow the cultivation of gmos and the other not, are mandatory. member states authorising the cultivation of gmos are allowed to establish liability schemes for damage caused by gm crops to neighbouring conventional and organic crops. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. the proposed text is misleading. it is presented as a guarantee of freedom given to the states, and will facilitate the cultivation of gmos. even if a state refuses to allow the cultivation of a gmo, the internal market rules prevent it from prohibiting the movement of that gmo and products derived from it for consumption. the health, environmental and food requirements are also not sufficient in the authorisation procedures and monitoring of gmo crops. i voted against this text which threatens the health of the citizens of the member states of the european union and the independence of farmers who will be dependent on patented seeds.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because the socioeconomic impacts of gmo cultivation are not currently taken into account in eu regulations. it was therefore necessary to evolve the system to ensure that each member state had the possibility to choose whether or not to grow gmos on its territory.
in writing. i voted against this text, which i consider to be a trojan horse of the agrochemical multinationals: under the false pretext of giving the states the freedom to authorise or not to authorise gmos, it will de facto impose them on the french people's plates, despite the ban currently in force on our territory. in fact, if free movement is still an untouchable dogma within the european union, how can we ban the import of gmos? how can we limit consumption when we cannot guarantee the traceability and labelling of consumer products? the gmo technology would only be acceptable if we were able to control its design, production and marketing, which is far from the case.
in writing. this recommendation concerns the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/18/ec as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. even if it restores a certain degree of sovereignty to the states, which seems positive at first sight, the reality is quite different and is distorted by the free movement in europe, which will in no way prevent the import of products from countries which allow gmos to countries which prohibit them. unfortunately, member states no longer have control over borders, legislation or budgets and this recommendation is just another trick. the european union, by refusing to listen to the opinion of the citizens who in the majority condemn gmos, is thus subject to multinational companies and the future free trade agreement with the united states. health becomes a variable of adjustment which endangers both man and nature and that is why i voted against.
in writing. this text is the result of a painful compromise. i am thinking of that long night of 3 december when the concessions made by the council and the commission were minor. parliamentary representation and therefore the peoples of europe are being mocked. the choice left to the member states, the so-called opt-out clause, not to grow gmos is a real decoy. on the one hand, under the principles of free movement, these gmos, legally produced and marketed in a member state, will be able to find their way onto the plate of a french consumer. the second is the false precaution put forward by the rapporteur of the text, according to which 'the minority of member states which cultivate gmos will now have to take compulsory measures in border areas to avoid possible contamination'. a bit like that radioactive chernobyl cloud that miraculously blocked the franco-german border... i am voting against this text, which goes against the will of the people, against the health of consumers and farmers and against the diversity of crops. once again, this parliament is serving the interests of the agrochemical multinationals. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat the use of gmos, such as those imposed by certain multinational companies, the united states and the european union.
in writing. the proposed amendments to amend directive 2001/18/ec, which allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, are not satisfactory. this gmo directive is a real trap because, under the guise of a supposed respect for the sovereignty of the member states, it offers a gateway to gmo cultivation on the european market. it is no secret that some member states of the union are in favour of gmo cultivation. however, in view of the respect for the free movement of goods and services, if a member state can prohibit the cultivation of gmos on its territory, it will be unable to refuse the import of agricultural products derived from the cultivation of gmos. in practical terms, this directive is likely to have the opposite effect and thus facilitate the sale of foodstuffs in the french supermarket shelves. for all these reasons, i voted against the motion for a resolution and will oppose in the strongest possible terms anything which facilitates the marketing of products containing gmos.
in writing. i voted in favour of the directive on the prohibition or authorisation of the cultivation of gmos in the european union. the text will allow member states which, like france, prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory to continue to do so legally. it was necessary to create a legal basis for settling disputes concerning the use of gmos in europe. the situation had been deadlocked for far too long. however, this text is a major setback because the union has preferred not to legislate on a fundamental subject of european dimension and has referred the matter to the member states. i regret the choice of not being in europe.
in writing. because i am committed to the principle of sovereignty, i voted against this text: on the surface, the directive seems to proclaim the freedom for states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory; this declaration of good faith is a deception. the principle of free movement of goods enshrined in the lisbon treaty prevents france from really protecting itself against the consumption of transgenic plants: many eu member states have adopted legislation that is very favourable to gmos. as a result, french consumers will, against the wishes of the majority of them, be forced to consume more and more food products containing transgenic plants. the real freedom of the states therefore requires mandatory labelling of products containing gmos. i could not vote for a text which, like the european union, gives people a substitute for freedom.
in writing. this report concludes several years of negotiations on the management of the introduction or disposal of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in the european union. until recently, differences between member states and the european parliament prevented any possibility of agreement, leaving private, public and associative actors with fragmented and uncoordinated procedures within the internal market. this is therefore a welcome compromise, even if the text remains mainly procedural and does not take a position on the very appropriateness of gmos, which is left to the member states. i will therefore be careful that this necessary compromise does not set a precedent in other areas, which in the longer term could lead to the european legislation being deprived of its substance. the text is nevertheless an opportunity which must be seized and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the text amending directive 2001/18/ec as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory is a compromise. like all compromises, it is not perfect, but it has the merit of providing a solid legal basis that has not existed until now. this legal stability will thus protect france from legal action if it takes measures to ban gmos. the text also guarantees the member states the final say on the use of gmos in their territory. it is for these two reasons in particular that i have decided to vote in favour of this text. i will, however, be very attentive to this matter, particularly in the context of the free trade agreement negotiations currently under way with the united states.
in writing. currently, genetically modified organisms (gmos) can be grown in the european union after the gmo seed growers have obtained a marketing authorisation in accordance with european regulations. however, there are many differences between member states as to whether or not gmos should be grown. the adoption of the directive on the possibility for the latter to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory is therefore a step in the right direction. it provides a reasoned legal framework for member states, like france, which wish to ban the cultivation of gmos on their territory. the european parliament also obtained an obligation for member states where gmos are grown to take coexistence measures at the borders to avoid contamination in neighbouring member states where gmos are not grown.
in writing. i voted in favour because although this agreement is proof of the impossibility of finding a european answer to this question at the moment (irreconcilable differences of opinion between pro- and anti-gmo), it finally establishes legal stability for all the parties concerned, and in particular the member states. the system will allow member states who wish to cultivate gmos and those who do not wish to legally prohibit them. it is a two-speed system which is not perfect, which did not fully satisfy the pro- and anti-gmo groups, but which does get us out of the current deadlock. this agreement must be a first step towards a european solution in the medium term. we need a common response to the question of gmos to avoid distortions of competition between european farmers.
in writing. this agreement ends four long years of passionate and controversial discussions on the cultivation of gmos in europe, and is essentially aimed at allowing member states who wish to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their own territory to do so. their decision to restrict or prohibit such crops will benefit from greater legal certainty and will avoid the systematic use of moratoriums which can be challenged at any time by litigation. the commission will have to update the legislation on environmental risk assessment of gmos within two years. coexistence measures at the border between two states, one of which would allow the cultivation of gmos and the other not, are mandatory; states that allow the cultivation of gmos are allowed to establish liability regimes for damage caused by gm crops to neighbouring conventional and organic crops. i have supported this report as a first step, but i believe that the debate must continue in the interests of the precautionary principle and the necessary harmonization of practices in europe.
in writing. the proposed text is misleading. it is presented as a guarantee of freedom given to the states, and will facilitate the cultivation of gmos. even if a state refuses to allow the cultivation of a gmo, the internal market laws prevent it from prohibiting the movement of that gmo and its products for consumption. the health, environmental and food requirements are also not sufficient in the authorisation procedures and in the monitoring of gmo crops. i voted against this text which threatens the health of the peoples of europe and the independence of farmers who will be dependent on patented seeds.
in writing. once again, european ideology and dogmatism collide with common sense. european integration has now reached such a stage that any proposal to refer decisions on gmos to the member states runs counter to the myriad of european standards which render them ineffective and obsolete. in fact, what is needed is to question the whole edifice of the european union. the sovereignty of the states, and indeed the principle of subsidiarity, must be the rule and not the exception, as is the case today.
in writing. meps agreed on tuesday at noon on the principle of a compromise on the thorny issue of gmos. for years, negotiations have been blocked by the irreconcilable positions of pro- and anti-gmo groups. the answer which has been endorsed by the european parliament is imperfect. you have to admit it. the system allows member states that wish to cultivate gmos and those that are opposed to it to legally ban them. so it's a never-before-seen response that perpetuates a two-speed system. however, this compromise provides legal guarantees which are essential to curb the actions brought against member states such as france which are against the cultivation of gmos. that is why i have decided to support this approach.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. the agreement provides that member states wishing to grow gmos may do so and that those wishing to ban them are free to do so legally. the agreement also provides for the adoption by the member states of coexistence measures in crossborder areas to avoid contamination of traditional crops. the two-speed system is not perfect, but it does put an end to a long period of confusion and stalemate which could not satisfy anyone and which i felt it was urgent to end. it also has the merit of finally bringing legal stability to this sensitive issue. the agreement means that countries such as france which take measures to ban gmos will no longer have to justify their actions before the court of justice of the european union. i welcome the adoption of this agreement.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text, which puts an end to a deadlock after five years of debate between the european institutions. the new legislation gives member states more freedom to decide whether to grow or ban gmos on their territory, and provides greater legal stability for all parties concerned. it is true that it has not yet been possible to find a single european response to the problem, which would have avoided distortions of competition between european farmers. however, the progress made by the new text is to be welcomed, namely the extended list of grounds for legally prohibiting the cultivation of gmos and the creation of coexistence measures in cross-border areas to avoid contamination of traditional crops by gm crops.
in writing. i voted in favour of this very important european directive on genetically modified organisms (gmos). the aim was to fill the legal vacuum which had previously existed in this field at european level by providing a common legal basis for the member states. they will now have a legislative framework to practice, restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos in their territory. this directive is a compromise which does not fully satisfy either the pro- or the anti-gmo groups, but which does have the merit of regulating the cultivation of gmos and their marketing within the internal market, including in cross-border areas.
in writing. the proposal for an 'à la carte' authorisation will certainly facilitate national refusals of genetically modified organisms, but it will also favour european authorisations, since the member states will no longer fear being forced by the commission to authorise the cultivation of gmos on their territory. the logic of authorization is further reinforced by the fact that the very basis of future national bans is fragile, since the articles concerned the internal market, while parliament asked that the legal basis of the text be the environment. i therefore refused to be associated with this pyrrhic victory and voted against this text. it has just broken the common european front against gmos, at the very moment when the commission is negotiating a major trade agreement with the united states. with this national approach he is scaring away european opposition to american genetically modified products. how can we continue this ban if we allow the same gmos to be grown in some european countries? this is at best a tactical error, at worst a deliberate calculation by the commission's negotiators, which i reject as a whole.
in writing. with this directive, member states will have the possibility to prohibit or allow the cultivation of gmos on their territory. the number of gm products in retail trade is likely to increase sharply in all countries as a result of free movement. this directive is therefore unacceptable.
in writing. i voted against this because it is a decoy designed to deceive the citizens. it ostensibly respects the sovereignty of states, since it allows them to prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. but in reality, it does not change anything for consumers. because with the free movement of goods, gmos will come to french supermarkets from the european states that allow them. and french consumers will eat gmos without knowing it. it is therefore a text that satisfies multinational companies at the expense of the sovereignty of states and also of human health, because it must be remembered that gmos are generally designed to withstand massive doses of roundup, which is then found in food.
in writing. i am voting against this because parliament wants us to believe that a state can prevent the consumption of gmos on its territory. this is absolutely impossible in a globalised economy in the hands of multinationals, where borders no longer exist. a genuine sovereignty must allow a state to prohibit the consumption of gmos or, if necessary, to support national research independent of lobbies.
in writing. despite a misleading title, the text on gmos put to the vote is not satisfactory in several respects. it is tantamount to prohibiting the import and free movement of gmos in territories which have banned their cultivation. such a prohibition must be validated by the commission. if the plant is banned, farmers cannot exploit the technology, but consumers would still find these gmos on their plates, without any traceability. the text should therefore be voted against. the gmos imposed on us by the agrochemical multinationals and the european union are unacceptable and dangerous: increased pesticides, enslavement of farmers, ecological disasters on fauna and flora. in the interests of food sovereignty, gmo technology is acceptable in france only under three conditions: the state can decide on the improvements and properties to be made, be able to produce them on our territory according to our own uses, and control their marketing. the fn is not opposed to further reflection on this, particularly to avoid a technological gap between europe and the united states.
in writing. i voted against this recommendation which would amend directive 2001/18/ec and give member states the possibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. even if this text appears to restore a certain degree of sovereignty to the member states, in reality it will not do so, since the very principle of free movement within the european union distorts the situation from the outset. the ultra-liberal economic model advocated by brussels will in any case allow the import of products from third countries that allow gmos, to eu countries that prohibit them. the member states no longer have any control over their national borders, so the legislation or budgets allocated to this recommendation are just another trick. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of foodstuffs and to improve the quality of life of the population. the eu, by remaining deaf to the demands of european citizens, who in the majority condemn gmos, remains subject to the agro-food lobbies. the next free trade agreement with the united states will of course only make this situation worse by introducing total deregulation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which clarifies the possibilities for member states to allow or not to allow the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory. this text increases legal certainty and gives member states the final say on whether or not to allow the cultivation of gmos. it also provides for the adoption by member states of coexistence measures in crossborder areas to avoid contamination of traditional crops by gm crops.
in writing. on tuesday 13 january i voted in favour of the report providing for the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. after five years of debate between the european parliament and the council, this text does not offer an ideal answer, but it does help to unblock the current situation. the member states will thus be able to prohibit or allow the cultivation of gmos on their soil if they so wish, without fear of legal action. until now, the lack of clear legislation has left vulnerable those states which, like france, have initiated proceedings to ban these crops. the text also provides for coexistence measures around cross-border areas to avoid contamination of traditional crops by gm crops. i support this compromise, which should eventually lead to a european response.
in writing. this new framework for the prohibition of gmo cultivation by member states may at first appear to be a positive development for ending gmo cultivation in the european union. but it is the opposite. by nationalising the decision to authorise or prohibit the cultivation of gmos, we run the risk of a great disparity in the use of gmos in europe, and thus of possible cross-border contamination, but also of a distorted competitiveness between european farmers. the pressure exerted by the large international gmo producers is well known and will now be exerted on each member state. there is therefore a strong fear that contrary to what was argued in favour of this proposal, the cultivation of gmos will be widespread in europe and will pose even more difficulties than before. for these reasons i voted against this proposal.
in writing. it is pointless to ban the cultivation of gmos when we cannot control and ban the import of gm products. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this text is a travesty that claims to give sovereignty to the peoples while depriving them of the possibility to know what they consume. in addition, farmers in countries that ban gmos will face unfair competition from those that allow them. i therefore vote against.
in writing. the legal instability surrounding the control of gmos in the european union could have challenged the will of states not wishing to see gmos establish themselves on their territory. the text before the european parliament reflects the antagonistic positions of the member states, but nevertheless has the merit of clarifying this situation. from this point of departure, member states will now be able to establish, under the control of efsa, or not to establish, gmo crops on their territory. in addition, very strict legal criteria are now being applied to the authorisation of gmos. it should be stressed that these restrictions are accompanied by measures placing expertise on an equal footing, ensuring that consumers are prevented from finding traces of gmos in their food and creating buffer zones between member states. france will therefore be able to continue to refuse gmos on its territory, without fear of any challenge from any company or state. on the contrary, if the french population were to accept gmos one day, it could do so on the basis of scientific studies validated by the health authorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text and amendment no 52, which takes up the terms of the agreement concluded with the council on the sensitive issue of the cultivation of gmos. it is good that we have got out of the current impasse and have been able to overcome the 'pro' and 'anti-gmo' deadlock on this text. i supported this compromise because it takes up several key points in this dossier: firstly, the safeguarding of the european character of the system, while opening up the possibility for member states who wish to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their own territory. secondly, on the technical level, the rebalancing of the role of undertakings and that of the member states in the two phases, and more flexibility as to the types of grounds that may be invoked to justify the ban. i also welcome the obligation to provide for an update of the directive on environmental risk assessment of gmos. finally, the obligation to avoid contamination in the event of coexistence between gm and non-gm crops. for these reasons, i supported the text, which we have reached after four years of work.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of the gmo directive (480 votes in favour, 159 against and 58 abstentions). in the past, the commission could authorise genetically modified crops in the absence of a qualified majority. however, states such as france which wished to defend their consumers and their agriculture could be condemned by the court of justice of the european union. the directive will now allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory on environmental, agricultural and socioeconomic grounds. member states have two years to take measures to prevent contamination of traditional crops by gm crops in cross-border areas. in addition, the european commission has committed to review and strengthen the rules for risk assessment carried out by the european food safety authority (efsa). in voting in favour of this directive, i have chosen to strengthen the safety of member states opposed to gmos, the safety of farmers and the safety of european consumers.
in writing. the text proposed is biased and dishonest. it flatters national pride by making them appear to have sovereignty in the matter. european nation states would therefore be able to choose whether or not to grow gmos on their own land but not to choose what ends up on the plates of their fellow citizens. under the single market rule, it will therefore be sufficient for a state to allow the cultivation of these crops so that their products can be distributed without any control in markets and supermarkets throughout the european union. so the french would eat gmos even if france decided not to grow them. i am not opposed to research on the subject. are not the grapes of our wines themselves gmo?
in writing. with this report, the european parliament opens a loophole in the protection against genetically modified organisms. it is intended to extend the rights of member states to justify a national or regional ban on the cultivation of a gmo, but will ultimately lead to the legal weakening of such bans. first, its lack of clarity opens the door to regulatory attacks by multinational seed companies like monsanto against countries that have banned the cultivation of one of their gmos. this breach is particularly problematic at a time when the creation of private international tribunals is being negotiated in the context of ttip. moreover, the legal basis for this report is not article 192 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which is devoted to the environment, but article 114 on the internal market. as a result, member states will not be able to invoke the precautionary principle or go beyond the minimum environmental requirements. i therefore voted against this report, in line with the demands of many european citizens who oppose gmos because of the risks they pose to their health, to biodiversity, to the diversity of cropping methods and to conventional and organic farming.
in writing. i voted against the report on the provisions for fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement, as the rapporteur, mr gabriel mato, wants to encourage fishing for red coral, which is an endangered species.
in writing. this proposal for a resolution amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2011 on certain provisions relating to fishing in the gfcm agreement area provides for technical measures (sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduction of seabird bycatch, etc.) but also specific obligations on recording and reporting data. this text could prove to be binding on fishermen, who are already hard hit by the crisis and the community's regulatory requirements. fishermen are also subject to the requirements of the gfcm, an organization established in 1949 by an international agreement under article xiv of the fao constitution. it is becoming urgent to find solutions that must not only protect the marine environment but also fishermen, who can no longer tolerate temporary stops to fishing or the maintenance of quotas that are too low. for these reasons, i have voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this deliberation because it is about transposing the recommendations of the cgpm into eu law. i support the gfcm's missions to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living aquatic resources, to design and recommend conservation measures and to promote cooperative projects in the field of training.
in writing. this proposal for a resolution amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2011 on certain provisions relating to fishing in the gfcm agreement area provides for technical measures (sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduction of seabird bycatch, etc.), but also specific obligations on recording and reporting data. this text seems to be binding on fishermen, who are already hard hit by the crisis and the regulatory requirements of brussels and are equally hard hit by the requirements of the cgpm, an organization created in 1949 by an international agreement under article xiv of the fao constitution. it is becoming urgent to find solutions that must not only protect the marine environment but also fishermen, who can no longer tolerate temporary stops to fishing or keeping quotas too low. as it stands, i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the provisions relating to fishing in the area covered by the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement. the report aims to transpose into union law a number of measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) at its annual sessions in 2011, 2012 and 2013. the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation established in accordance with article xiv of the fao constitution. its main objectives are to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and the intermediate waters. it was therefore important to align the legislation in force with the recommendations of the gfcm.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) agreement aims to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living aquatic resources and sets a high level of protection for species in the mediterranean area. this report proposes to amend european legislation to include the measures contained in the cgpm recommendations. these recommendations set a sufficient level of regulatory protection, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), established in 1949 and to which the european union is a party, aims to promote the development and conservation of living aquatic resources in the mediterranean. the purpose of this text is to transpose into union law some of the recommendations of the cgpm. these recommendations are welcome as they establish a sufficient level of regulatory protection. they provide for measures to reduce incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans and for provisions to ensure a high level of protection against shark and ray fishing activities.
in writing. the european union is a contracting party to the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean), a regional organisation set up in 1949 to play an active role in the conservation of fish stocks in the international waters of the mediterranean sea. the gfcm adopts, on the basis of scientific advice, binding recommendations which must therefore be transposed into community law, where their content is not already covered by community legislation. the european regulation on certain provisions for fishing in the gfcm agreement area (com2014/0457) provides for technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area. these measures will improve the conservation of the balance of the seabed and biodiversity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr gabriel mato on the provisions relating to fishing in the area covered by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the gfcm, which promotes the conservation and rational management of fish stocks in the mediterranean, has in fact adopted recommendations in recent years (in particular on the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds and sea turtles) which should be transposed into union law.
in writing. i supported the report on the provisions for fishing in the area covered by the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the report proposes to transpose into union law a number of measures adopted by the gfcm, including measures on the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of certain aquatic species.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which transposes into eu law a number of measures (sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduction of seabird bycatch, conservation of monk seals, etc.) adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) at its annual sessions in 2011, 2012 and 2013. the aim is to ensure that these measures can be applied in a uniform and effective manner throughout the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which provides for technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources in the mediterranean while reducing the incidental capture of seabirds, sea turtles or cetaceans. although it could have been even more ambitious in terms of environmental protection, the report contains measures which complement and add to those of other eu directives, such as the habitats directive.
in writing. it appears that the gfcm agreements, covering the whole of the mediterranean, call for stricter protection measures for marine resources and habitat. the european parliament must vote on whether or not to incorporate these conditions into eu law. i'm all for it.
in writing. i supported the report which transposes into european law the latest provisions adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the commission brings together 23 countries bordering the mediterranean and ensures the sustainable, social, economic and environmental use of marine biological resources in the mediterranean. these provisions are mainly aimed at protecting red coral by restricting harvesting conditions and at preserving certain species such as turtles and seals by prohibiting their being kept on board. i am very much in favour of the work of the gfcm, because it now allows the mediterranean states to act in concert to tackle the problem of fisheries resources in the mediterranean. today, we have far too little information about the species that live there, and yet the conditions are catastrophic. according to the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries, 95% of the stocks in the mediterranean are overexploited. the eu will have to impose research programmes and make new management proposals.
in writing. there are many challenges in the common fisheries policy, especially when it comes to protecting marine biodiversity and ensuring sustainable development, including for fishermen. the draft regulation submitted to parliament concerned fisheries in the mediterranean; it aims to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living aquatic resources. other measures will promote the sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduce the incidental capture of seabirds, sea turtles and whales and conserve monk seals, sharks and rays in this area. it is therefore an extension of other existing european texts on the protection of these species. if it is regrettable that parliament's votes are still not up to the challenge, including here where the environmental requirements proposed by the commission have been reduced, it is in the right direction. so i voted for it.
mr president, the main conclusion of the council summit is that investment in europe must be encouraged after years of failed austerity policies. we can only agree with that conclusion. the debate between us is about how to get this public and private investment back on track. i must say that i wonder, as do many european citizens, when i read in the council's final document that the negotiations for the transatlantic treaty between the united states and europe must be speeded up. why such haste at a time when studies by economists and scientists are coming out very clearly that the economic benefits of this treaty for europe are largely hypothetical? these studies also show very clearly that there may be risks to exports from most european countries and downward pressure on wages, in short that today the risks and threats are real. i therefore ask the following question at the end of this council: are we not putting the european project at risk by trying to go too fast for ideological reasons, and should we really continue to rush forward?
the question is "blue cardboard". mr carver, do you agree with my view that we intervened outside the mandate that the united nations gave to the nations that intervened?
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the hostage takers in in aménas, algeria, the leader of the jihadists of ansar dine and the murderers of the french journalists ghislaine dupont and claude verlon in 2013 in mali have one thing in common: they all found themselves in libya at one time or another to train, arm and thus commit heinous terrorist crimes. these three very concrete examples illustrate the reality of what has become of libya, a state in decline, which has given way to a terrorist hub at the gates of europe. the south-west of libya and its border are also in trouble, where groups have already pledged allegiance to daesh near the city of derna. there are no miracle solutions in libya and armed intervention is not part of the solution. political dialogue, again and again, is the only credible solution. so if there is an urgency, it is the urgency to bring together all the regional forces and international organizations so that an intra-libyan dialogue framework can emerge. without this, the threat of instability and terrorism will never leave the libyan sands. we are counting on you, madam high representative, and on the entire international community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the heinous crimes that france has known are also the heinous, abject and ignoble children of the insane policy pursued by france and europe at the tail of the united states with the incredible claim to rule the affairs of the world. in this stateless libya, where armed militias rule the law, the illegal trade in arms and drugs is on the rise. this country has become the last port of entry for immigration to europe. the central mediterranean route has become the route of death and of all traffic, as italy can unfortunately see today. so, dear madam, we are not convinced - to say the least - by the policies of intervention in afghanistan, iraq and libya with all the flood of death and massacre. the leaders change but the massacres remain. we therefore call on the arab league, turkey and the petrodollars of the oil monarchies to finally deal with this policy which is within their sphere of influence and not to intervene directly in matters which are not our responsibility.
madam president, commissioner, as you have rightly pointed out, the european union must act quickly and effectively in the face of this european fiasco, this detestable image of europe that we have in the mediterranean, in the cemetery that it has become. we need to adopt three key responses. first, tougher legislation on trafficking, human trafficking, and a real reaction against this new, sordid and extremely lucrative economy used by criminal smugglers with ghost ships. this reaction must be ruthless and strong against these smugglers who act in an unspeakable way with unaccompanied migrant children. secondly, frontex, which is absolutely out of date, must have real budgetary resources, its own equipment and a compulsory, not optional, contribution from the states. and finally, as our colleague cecilia wikström has pointed out, we must ensure that there are legal migration routes.
madam president, the european union is incapable of effectively combating the channels of immigration. as evidence, 160,000 migrants arrived by sea in italy in 2014, an average of 450 migrants per day. and things are getting worse as three cargo ships full of syrians arrived from turkey between december 22 and january 3. the smugglers charge these immigrants up to $8,000 per person. it's a good business. the european union does not dare to solve the problem. his triton program is an admission of impotence. the khartoum process is an empty shell and it does not even dare to challenge turkey, which is openly organising immigration by sea. the union has so little courage that it continues to consider the accession of a country which mocks it. personally, i believe that the only way for european states to control immigration is to take back their sovereignty.
madam president, some might say: 'another debate on migration in the european parliament!' in fact, there has not been a plenary session in recent times without the subject of migration being raised in the debates. the new methods of smuggling are the main reason for today's debate. garbage trucks, leaving turkish or egyptian ports, abandoned on the way, which are capable of transporting even larger groups of migrants. this macabre business is not in crisis, on the contrary, with ever more powerful and sophisticated smuggling networks that pocket millions of euros in the process. the methods are new, but the causes are not. the conflicts in syria, iraq, the instability in afghanistan are having terrible consequences, forcing tens of thousands of people to take increasingly expensive and dangerous roads. the methods are new, but neither are the solutions. like other colleagues, i have repeatedly stressed in recent debates the need for a comprehensive approach to migration, including the promotion of legal channels. from the point of view of asylum, there are already several mechanisms to admit refugees without having to risk their lives. whether we are talking about resettlement, humanitarian temporary admission, a more flexible visa policy or even family reunification, solutions exist and others can also be considered. but the clock is ticking. two questions to conclude. what is the european commission's practical approach to legal channels in its overall approach to migration issues and how do the member states intend to strengthen their cooperation on interception, rescue at sea and reception of migrants?
madam president, once again we are talking about the tragedy of migrants in the mediterranean. despite mare nostrum or even triton, the death toll has never been higher. there were probably 4,000 or more dead, including syrians, iraqis, eritreans and many others. their nationality shows that they are refugees to whom the member states of the european union refuse protection. never have migrants taken so many risks, never have smugglers taken so few. commissioner, they know the risks they are taking and they are paying for it. the solution is not to close borders, to send problems to third countries, to withdraw into oneself and to feed fears. i should like to say how shocked i am - and i cannot say enough - by the political recovery by some european heads of government of the dramatic events that took place in france. immigration has nothing to do with these murderous attacks. it's not enough to march in paris to show solidarity. we have to do something. it's not enough to promise to take him in. we have to do it, and we're way off the mark.
madam president, i am surprised at the tone of this debate. i hear a number of colleagues saying that the solution to the situation of these ghost ships, which are filled with hundreds, thousands of unfortunates seeking to immigrate illegally, is, it must be said, in our european countries, to open up legal immigration more. it reminds me of the one who, to avoid getting wet from the rain, would dive into the pool fully dressed, which is obviously a little more effective. actually, ladies and gentlemen, why are these unfortunates rushing to risk their lives? well, it is because for the last seven or eight years - when i went to lampedusa with the parliamentary group i chaired - it is now well known throughout the world and in africa that once you set foot in europe, even if it is illegal, you never leave. if you really want to stop this traffic, you must not only prosecute the criminals and make representations to turkey. how can you believe that you can put hundreds of people on a cargo ship and then repair it without the authorities in the country of origin being aware of it? but unfortunately, with the help of the united nations, the unfortunate refugees must also be returned to their countries of origin. it's the only effective measure.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, blue sky m, ezadeen, norman atlantic: the names of these three ships full of illegal immigrants bound for european shores are themselves a symbol of the complete failure of european immigration policy. for the past 20 years, the schengen agreements have turned the signatory states into a giant sieve with ever-widening holes. the increase in social vacuum pumps for illegal immigrants only amplifies this phenomenon. the first victims are the nationals of the member states, whose society is destabilized by this uncontrolled and incessant influx. illegal immigrants are also collateral victims of a mafia trafficking system that not only robs them of their scarce resources but also puts their lives at risk. it is therefore urgent that the member states should regain control of their borders and put an end to this mad rush.
madam president, the fight against human trafficking networks, these criminal networks, is of course an absolute necessity. in recent years we have seen the proliferation of these criminal networks, these networks of smugglers who exploit human misery and suffering in the most shameful way. but it is the scandal of these garbage ships, these cargo ships that were left adrift in the mediterranean with hundreds of men, women and children on board, that has rightly stirred european public opinion and is the reason for our debate today. so what do we do, commissioner? you have outlined the broad outlines of a comprehensive approach to migration that we call our wishes. the answer must be european. it has to be coordinated, it has to be common, of course. you mentioned the legal instruments to combat trafficking and called for these instruments to be strengthened. we will consider your proposal very carefully and we want to see a tightening up of our instruments of repression against smugglers who are guilty of human trafficking. but i also want to say two things at this point. we need clarity in the tasks and an end to hypocrisy. clear mission: the humanitarian mission and the mission to protect our borders must not be confused. it is not the same missions, it is not necessarily the same operators who have to be at work. and we must also put an end to the hypocrisy, the hypocrisy of many of our governments who are silent about the need to give more budgetary and operational resources to the european agencies and the various operators. triton doesn't have enough money and will soon run out of funds.
madam president, i shall be very brief on my point of order. you are not responsible for this procedure, which has been followed in other debates. but i would like to say that we are no longer in a procedure of intervention on demand. if groups have to register in advance and register their speakers, this is an extension of the debate. these are no longer on-demand interventions. interventions on demand are a procedure that has been planned. i am an old member of parliament and i have seen the beginnings of this procedure, which was supposed to be spontaneous, in which everyone waved a blue card and the first ones spoke. i think there is a real procedural problem with these on-demand interventions.
in writing. the schengen convention and then the amsterdam treaty deprived the member states of their national borders and of the necessary and indispensable checks. the free movement of goods and people advocated by brussels has given rise to and developed over the years an obvious appeal to illegal immigration. in addition, following the 'mare nostrum', the triton operation set up by the european union, which aims to enable the rescue of ships full of illegal immigrants abandoned by mafia smugglers in the middle of the mediterranean, is only making the situation worse. so it is with eu support that illegal immigrants will finally land on european soil instead of being sent back to their country of origin, as common sense and justice would demand. the schengen area has turned the signatory member states into real strainers. better still, genuine social vacuum pumps for illegal immigrants have been created by governments of both left and right, further increasing the phenomenon of illegal immigration. our societies are destabilized by the weight of this illegal immigration. the illegal immigrants are victims of the smugglers, while the citizens of europe are victims of the laxity of their governments.
in writing. earlier this year, in less than a week, two drifting cargo ships landed in italy. the disaster was narrowly averted: nearly 1200 migrants and asylum seekers were rescued. these new smuggling practices call for a strong and coordinated eu response. it is essential not to react hastily but to think about a comprehensive and sustainable long-term strategy in cooperation with the international community. since the end of mare nostrum, migrants and asylum seekers have continued to pour into our continent, and triton's human and financial resources are insufficient to provide them with relief. the eu migration plan will not prevent further tragedies in the mediterranean if it focuses on the fight against migrant smuggling. the real priority is to develop legal migration channels for migrants and to define safe access routes to the eu for asylum seekers. finally, there is an urgent need to implement the humanitarian visa proposal, to enable people in need of international protection to access refugee status without having to take increasingly dangerous routes to reach europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, we are in 2015 and it is clear that since november 2013 and the adoption in plenary of the kratsa-regner report by our two colleagues rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou and evelyn regner, following the european commission's proposal for a mechanism to ensure a better gender balance in the boards of large european companies the 'women on boards' project , the situation has hardly improved. after our own position, little progress was made in the council. we were disappointed that the italian presidency had not been able to complete its work and reach a compromise, particularly at the last competitiveness council on 11 december. however, the european parliament, for its part, had shown a great deal of pragmatism in basing itself on the principle of an unconstrained, quantified objective, accompanied by fairer and more transparent selection procedures for directors. the european parliament's position was based on consensus work between the different groups and achieved a balance by balancing the need to increase the presence of women on the boards of large companies and the importance of respecting the legal frameworks, traditions and national laws applicable to management and company law in each member state. the target of the text is also rather limited: large european companies listed on the stock exchange. so there is a reasonable objective here, but at the same time a symbolic objective, a highly symbolic one. a powerful symbol that should allow us to offer future generations a path to increase female leadership, to finally break through the glass ceiling. as regards the means, we can see that when legislative measures are implemented - and this is the case in all the countries of the union, starting with my own country - results are achieved. we must now therefore put all the good will - i would say all the feminine energy that has been expressed in the voice of the commissioner, in the voice of the minister and, under the auspices of the latvian presidency, in the voice of the prime minister of latvia - into building a compromise. the european parliament, for its part, is quite prepared to work on this subject on an equal footing with the council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not share the views of the council and the commission on crime. i think that the tragic events that have just happened in france cannot be separated from the fight against serious crime. the islamic state in the levant and iraq, boko haram and many other groups are feeding off of the great crime. the three sinister killers, like those who preceded them, like kelkal, merah or nemmouche, before becoming the flag bearers of radical islam and terrorism, had already distinguished themselves in great crime. coulibaly had committed about 15 robberies before committing his atrocities. i must tell you that many leaders of the european union have allowed the criminals of yesterday and the terrorists of today, through their lax and unconscious policy, to ensure that they proliferate and sow ever more deaths in our country. the schengen treaty and the armed mobilisation against syria and libya show us today that, unfortunately, crime is not being managed here in the european community.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on the supervision of lawyers in the european union (2015/2511 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed.
mr president, madam prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, you concluded your speech, madam prime minister, by pledging to bring europe closer to the citizens. yesterday, in this house, everyone paid tribute to the european citizens who rose up against barbarism, against fear and for solidarity. i will speak to you about the transatlantic treaty, because we cannot pay tribute to the european citizens when they rise up against terrorism and then try to wipe them out when they rise up against this treaty. there was a public consultation on the investor-state mechanism called "isds" , which will transfer sovereignty from citizens to companies. and the european commission decided yesterday that 97% of the respondents, or 145 000 citizens who spoke out against isds, had answered the question next to the question which was actually about how to improve a system and not about the investment mechanism. mr juncker, who opposed this system in front of everyone here, handed the baby to mr timmermans, for whom we understood that better regulation was better regulation for business and not for citizens. so, madam prime minister, will the council take into account the 97% of european citizens who have spoken out against isds and delete this chapter of ttip?
mr president, the schengen agreements prohibit a state from monitoring people entering or leaving its territory as long as it is a transit between two signatory countries. it therefore seriously weakens the surveillance of dangerous individuals crossing europe. all the capitals of europe are warning us of the presence of jihadists in the schengen area. it is time to apply article 2 of the treaty: 'when public policy or national security so require, a contracting party may, after consulting the other contracting parties, decide that, for a limited period, national border controls adapted to the situation shall be carried out at internal borders'. france has suffered several attacks by islamic terrorists since december. many frenchmen were killed or seriously wounded. what more serious event are you waiting for to suspend schengen? this lax treaty has already allowed mehdi nemmouche, the perpetrator of the attack on the jewish museum in brussels, to cross freely the borders between france and belgium. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to take all the necessary measures to ensure public order and security in each of our countries. it is time to suspend the schengen treaty and finally monitor our borders!
mr president, madam president, as you said at the beginning of this speech, it is european values that have been attacked in paris. the values of freedom, freedom of speech, freedom of worship, freedom to live together in diversity and freedom of conscience. to say no to terror and fanaticism, there was a tremendous mobilization, there was an expression of real european solidarity in the streets of paris. you were there. and i think that this mobilization is a requirement for europe to act today. we must act, for the threats, both internal and external, are still before us. europe's response must be a firm response within the natural framework of our rule of law. we need to strengthen the schengen system and effective control of our external borders and improve coordination and information sharing, that is obvious. this is done in particular through the european pnr referred to above. we must strengthen the powers of eurojust and europol, activate the appointment of a european prosecutor and we must as europeans address the issue of the internet because it is now the recruiting ground for all terrorists and we europe must not and cannot accept this. there is also an external aspect that we need to talk about. we need a common, coherent and concerted strategy on all the areas of conflict which today fuel fanaticism and terrorism. i am thinking of course of syria, iraq, yemen, libya, the sahel, where france, i remind you, is today on the front line. here too, european solidarity with france must be shown. finally, the best way to fight fanaticism and terrorism is to be proud of who we are, of our values, of what we stand for. the spirit of democracy is the best spirit of resistance.
mr president, madam prime minister, to inspire confidence, the european union must have the means to achieve its ambition. you are right to call for a competitive europe, because growth and employment depend on it. and, like us, you are looking forward to jean-claude juncker's investment plan. we are working very hard to give you the legal instruments you need. the scheme is based on the guarantee that the european union will give to private investors who will be involved in projects that are wise, but risky. the european union must therefore be able to meet its commitments by substituting itself for project promoters who are in default. in this respect, i would remind you, madam prime minister, that the european union is faced with a hidden debt, which is probably close to 30 billion unpaid as at 31 december 2014. after six weeks of fruitless conciliation and arduous trilogues, we have reached an agreement on the 2015 budget, conditional on a plan for the discharge of these debts. madam prime minister, i have not found any mention of this commitment by the council in your programme. what is at stake here is the credibility of our commitment. the confidence of private investors depends on this, i.e. the success of the juncker plan. madam prime minister, i wish you success!
mr president, madam prime minister, after what happened in my country, your presidency, like the political agenda of all democrats, is shaken. but, like all parliaments in the world, it is up to us to be mobilized around what the values of the democrats are. and like all the parliaments in the world that claim to be democratic, we must arm democracy against terrorists and we must do so with respect for our values. that is why this parliament will support a pnr if it helps to defend our values and it is here in this parliament that you should have this debate. yes to a european pnr, a pnr which also makes it possible to defend the values of democracy and the protection of individual freedoms and data. then, madam president, there is an issue in your presidency which we, the democrats and socialists, expect you to tackle with determination because it undermines our social model. it's the tax issue. the european parliament is convinced that we must also act effectively at european level in the tax field, and the way is open here too. we expect commitments from you in line with what this parliament expects from the commission's work programme. i wish you luck!
mr president, madam prime minister, as a french mep i thank you for your participation in the historic march in paris last sunday. the march was a reminder of the human chain that had linked the capitals of the three baltic states in their struggle for freedom. the tragedy in paris will of course force the latvian presidency to put the fight against terrorism at the top of our european agenda. but from this example, my main point will be the way the union is governed and its poor results in communicating with the media and public opinion. what have we seen up to last year? from time to time the european council meets and sets itself a grandiose, distant and unrealistic objective. it adopts 20 pages of conclusions which nobody reads, and then the commission consults them. she produces green books. parliament passes resolutions and the legislative implementation takes years, everything is lost in the sand, nobody understands anything. that is why the lisbon strategy failed, the europe 2020 agenda is failing and the headline goals for military capabilities never came to be. that is why the union has made a fool of itself in such vital areas as energy, asylum policy and immigration policy. we talk about it and we vote on it all the time, but we don't get anything done. i am pleased that, under the impetus of the jean-claude juncker commission, this governance model is beginning to change. yesterday the commission adopted a comprehensive package of measures to support growth, which will be submitted to us in bulk. the european council on 14 february will focus solely on terrorism, followed by energy and the digital economy let us all organise institutions together to deal not only with the big issues, but one by one, at one time and in all aspects. then national parliaments, the media and citizens will understand europe and have confidence in it.
mr president, madam prime minister, the success of the investment plan to revive growth and employment is highlighted in your programme as a priority and i welcome that. but a recovery plan needs fresh money and we see this in the editing and discussions around the juncker plan it's difficult. for several years we have been calling on the council to urgently find the union's own resources. this is a prerequisite for the union budget to be freed from the logic of the just return, a mortifying logic which kills all community ambition. the crisis in payments is nothing but a stealth debt of the union and the unpaid bills, which are getting heavier every year, are fuelling mistrust and discredit towards our institutions. your presidency will have to work on concrete solutions proposed by the commission. the proposal for a timetable on the payment crisis and the first progress report of the high level group on own resources must, i think, be among your priorities. madam prime minister, with the heavy task of prioritizing the council's work... (the president withdraws the speaker)
madam president, thank you, mrs mogherini, for your very good words about paris. it is an important moment for france and it is obviously an important moment for europe. we must be aware of the dangers that threaten us, because the threats from within and without are there. the areas of crisis, destabilisation and conflict are moving dangerously close to europe. they are fuelling fanaticism outside and inside europe and that is why we need a global response. first, we must strengthen our internal security, as we discussed this morning. the strengthening of the schengen agreements, the creation of a file, the question of the pnr and the internet. all these questions need to be on the table and answered quickly. secondly, we must finally give substance to the europe of defence. as you know, france is on the front line in mali, the sahel and iraq. it is doing so in the name of europe and the values we share, but europe as a whole will have to take its responsibilities. thirdly, we will have to have a coherent, comprehensive and united approach to foreign policy and we will have to prioritise. for example, in syria, the priority, it seems to me, is to eradicate daesh and al qaeda. i am in favour, as you have said, mrs mogherini, of europe being a peaceful, calm power, rooted in its values. but i also want her to be able to defend herself. what we want is both at the same time.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to emphasize your competence, but our common security and defence policy has become a common extra-european policy of insecurity and even, in my view, war research within our committee on foreign affairs. an extra-european policy because it was the united states that orchestrated the coup in ukraine. they're not hiding it from the intelligence community. they are the ones who define our enlargement policy and the 'otanisation' of europe. they are the ones who are organizing the fracturing of the continent by the policy of illegal sanctions contrary to international law. and let us not forget the wars we have become surrogates for and which bring new threats to the heart of our streets (iraq, libya and syria). france is paying the price! this policy of common insecurity is amplified in our committee on foreign affairs by the caricature that everything is white on one side and everything is black on the other. we do not try to understand, analyze or subscribe to the long history, which prevents any dialogue for peace. we are in parliament in propaganda. lies repeated must become truths. with the double standards that are our constant operating mode and with selective human rights that serve the demonization of the supposed enemy, a government currently supported by us is cannonizing its civilian population and that is normal. is this the europe of reconciliation and peace, the europe i believe in? (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, these allegations... (the president interrupts the speaker)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i think we have to be in good faith. of course, what i am saying is something we can talk about seriously and i have evidence of that. as for ukraine, i was in donbass, you know, we all know, and so i was the only one who saw on the ground how effectively - i don't want to judge - schools are bombed, the civilian population is terrorized and today donetsk is on fire. these are objective facts.
madam president, madam mogherini, i would first like to thank each and every one of you who have expressed your solidarity and compassion for the victims of paris. it is important to know that the events that have struck france in recent days can affect any of our 28 states at any time, provided they are states which defend values, the values of freedom, human respect, democracy and respect for equality between men and women. these events underline that the european union's security policy is both a moral necessity and a political requirement. we must as a matter of priority strengthen and better coordinate national actions at european level in the fields of intelligence, data exchange and monitoring of the internet, and we can take very concrete action here. the text on the pnr must be voted on by parliament at the next part-session. we must also note that today the european union, like any of the individual member states, does not have the means to be at the forefront of this crisis management. we need legal and strategic instruments and financial means. so, mrs. mogherini, i have three questions for you. firstly, at what level of european gnp do you estimate the financial resources needed? secondly, how do you intend to get each of the member states to contribute to the joint effort in an equitable way? thirdly, the european parliament has repeatedly suggested the drawing up of a white paper on defence. how do you plan to activate his editorial services?
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, you have just said that the european union must recover its identity. i can understand that point of view, even if it seems a bit abstract. but to illustrate this opinion, you have cited the demonstrations of 11 january in paris and i do not understand you. i don't see how you can connect these paris protests to a european identity problem since, very officially, the 4 million french people who marched all over france wanted to have a republican march. they therefore invoked the french republic and they also invoked national unity. i ask you if you do not think that this demonstration has nothing to do with the european union and that on the contrary it may be a sign of distrust of the union?
in writing. attacks on french soil must not go unanswered. clearly, the tools of our security and defence policy have not enabled us to take action or to face the dangers to which we europeans are today exposed outside and now, within our own borders. to this end, we urgently need to identify our strategic and capability weaknesses if we are to implement a truly effective security and defence policy. it is no longer a choice but a duty. if we are to protect our borders, our values and our citizens, we must have a functioning common military apparatus, stop the senseless cuts in our defence budgets, review the mechanism for jointly financing our military operations and finally speak with one voice to the rest of the world. enhanced police and intelligence cooperation and the establishment of a european pnr will also be essential to ensure the effectiveness and coherence of our joint action. only then will we be able to meet the security challenges ahead. we can't wait for another tragedy to react!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in february. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine (2014/2965 ((rsp)).
(addressing certain members of the epp group who are arguing loudly)
thank you for your advice, mr. obermayr.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr brok, if we are to be constructive, do you not think that we should distinguish between the fate of eastern ukraine, which must be negotiated and perhaps russia convinced, and that of crimea, where we have a simple problem of the right of self-determination of peoples? because, after all, there was a referendum in crimea and international law gives other precedents of countries that achieved independence like kosovo.
madam president, madam high representative, the commission has accustomed us to falling from charybdis to scylla. yet when we listen to you, we really don't feel sorry for mrs. ashton. in fact, pragmatically, you seem to take a much less atlanticist position than your predecessor. last thursday in riga, while europe's eyes were on paris, you considered the possibility of lifting the sanctions imposed by the european union on russia, and you said that this was because of positive signs from moscow. unfortunately, on sunday we learned that canada had just delivered another 42 containers of military equipment to ukraine, on the eve of the berlin meeting. according to many observers, the ukrainian authorities are actually just trying to buy time to better prepare a new punitive expedition in the donbass, rather than a diplomatic solution, respectful of the people of ukraine, which russia calls for. let us therefore stop listening to the american war mongers and try to resolve together, as neighbours of the old continent, this fratricidal conflict which has lasted too long and which is damaging to the interests of our peoples.
mr president, there is an islam which is acclimated to the nations, which inscribes the precepts of the koran in national cultures and which accepts that the law of the states is superior to the sharia. but there is also fundamentalist islam, which rejects history, which recognizes only the ummah as a nation and the koran as a constitution. this islam is at war with us and in this great battle that is just beginning, we need muslim allies. our european governments have destroyed the secular forces that tried to acclimate islam to state power in iraq, syria, libya, playing the game of islamists everywhere. the result is catastrophic. the regimes we must rely on are facing considerable islamist pressure. what would be the level of france's rule of law in the egyptian situation when we see the state of shock of the french power caused by three terrorists? i would remind you that egypt and its security forces in particular have suffered more than 500 deaths in the last 18 months. abdel fattah al-sisi has issued an extraordinary call from the largest arab country. he demanded that islam itself be purged of its violence. he called for a religious revolution. ladies and gentlemen, it is too easy, in the comfort of this house, to lecture the whole world on morality. the time has come to have allies and to assume the political differences they have with us. this is not a manipulation of emotion, this is not a childish slogan that the people expect from us, these are courageous political choices and responsibilities. we, the sovereignist parties, have made these choices for a long time because our priority is that our peoples live in peace and preserve their civilization.
mr president, madam high representative, what has been called the 'arab spring', a popular movement seeking ways of emancipation and democracy, has lacked real political, social and cultural support from our european institutions. the spirit of freedom and sovereignty should have been more strongly supported. in a context where external interference in the region, such as the intervention in libya, has unleashed forces of fundamentalist barbarism, egypt has experienced several upheavals in which freedom has not won, quite the contrary. the silencing of all opposition and press and the executions after mass trials are not acceptable. we must reach out more to the egyptian people and take account of the regional dimension of this great country which has long been one of the cultural beacon of the region and a facilitator, especially for the israeli-palestinian dialogue. a more sustained process must be initiated with this country to lay the foundations for a policy of sustainable co-development on both sides of the mediterranean.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that we have discussed the situation in egypt. unfortunately, while some still dare to speak of a democratic transition, the situation has continued to deteriorate. egypt now has more than 15,000 political prisoners, of whom a third are non-religious activists and 147 are our colleagues. as a former magistrate, i can only denounce the lack of independence of the egyptian judicial system. so-called justice, which is now only the instrument of blind and indiscriminate repression by the state. while those who yesterday were in charge of a sophisticated system of corruption and misuse of public property are acquitted, young peaceful activists, including yara sallam and sanaa seif, are sentenced, along with twenty-three others, to two years in prison. their only crime is that they demonstrated to denounce the freedom-killing laws passed by the regime in power. egypt must quickly return to the path of democratic transition or else let the hopes born of the revolution die.
in writing. on 6 january, egyptian president al sisi attended the christmas mass at st. mark's cathedral in cairo in the presence of coptic patriarch tawadros ii. my dear colleagues, what a strong and unprecedented gesture! what a journey! it is worth recalling that in 2011, new year's eve was bloodied by an attack on a church in alexandria that killed dozens of worshippers. this was followed by a violent persecution of the copts, organised by the muslim brotherhood and others, and supported by an 'arab spring' which had the full support of the european parliament. i would like to conclude with the words of president al sisi: "it is important that the world sees us as 'egyptians'"; and you'll notice that i'm only saying "egyptians". it is not acceptable for someone to ask: what religion are you an egyptian? other this is a message of peace and tolerance which deserves our unwavering support, especially since the islamic terrorist attacks in my country.
for the greens/efa group mr president, two italian sailors have been awaiting trial for three years for the murder of two indian fishermen. three years! three years without a single announcement of a lawsuit. this is contrary to the european concept of human rights. it is legitimate for the european union to defend the case of these two european citizens. its mission is clear and our resolution clearly states it. our two italian citizens must be repatriated to european soil and tried in italy by their national courts. but all of this shows otherwise. the european union, if it is to be credible, must act in a consistent manner with all its partners. yes, india is a major player and a vital trading partner, but this is where the european union can have a say. the free trade agreements concluded by the union are conditional on our trading partners respecting certain of our values. i therefore invite you, madam high representative, to recall this in your future contacts with the indian government. the lives of these italian sailors must not be sacrificed on the altar of free trade. finally, madam mogherini, our assembly asks you to intervene without waiting for the council to consult, as is the usual case. and that is the novelty of this european parliament. this is new and we as environmentalists will remember it and we hope you will not forget it when we ask you to intervene on other international issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the masks are falling off. we need real public scrutiny of the commission. 64% of inquiries opened by our ombudsman concern the commission. the number of complaints against the commission has increased. it does, however, have a direct effect on european citizens. we have to end this situation. for 18 years the court of auditors has refused to approve the commission's accounts. here parliament votes with the same lightness on discharge. worse, you refused to vote on the motion we tabled a few weeks ago, not to mention the mystery surrounding ttip. neither the council nor parliament have shown themselves capable of controlling the commission. so i have only one piece of advice to give you, commissioner. a wind is blowing and thundering here over europe. be careful because the people are very unhappy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the activities of the european ombudsman shows how completely disconnected the european union is from the concerns of the citizens of the member states. in 2013, fewer than 24 000 citizens consulted the ombudsman's services and only 461 inquiries were closed, which is ridiculous in view of the activity of the french ombudsman, for example, who dealt with almost 90 000 cases in 2011 alone. this figure shows the lack of interest of the citizens of each member state in european procedures and institutions. in addition, almost 20% of the ombudsman's proposals have not been implemented by the european institutions. as such, it would have been appropriate to ask why these proposals were not followed up in practice. for example, the ombudsman asked the commission to respect the basic rules of transparency regarding the ttip and ceta negotiations. the commission has not taken these recommendations into account, nor has it informed the members of the european parliament of the outcome of the negotiations on this free trade agreement. so no, the european ombudsman is not up to the challenge and weighs almost nothing against the all-powerful european commission.
in writing. the role of the european ombudsman is very important in showing citizens that the institutions are doing everything possible to ensure that their rights are respected. the ombudsman also acts as a trusted liaison between the european institutions and the citizens. the european project cannot be built in brussels alone. all citizens must be able to contribute to the building of the european union. i would like to congratulate mr diamandouros and mrs o'reilly on their work in 2013.
author. - madam president, we are voting today on two resolutions, one on russia and one on ukraine. in both cases, we find what i would like to call the monomania of some members of this house, who are much more cautious when it comes to, for example, certain gulf countries where a thirty-year-old blogger can be sentenced to a thousand lashes without any emotion being aroused. what does the european union want? to bring russia to its knees or to work for a genuine improvement in the human rights situation in that country? we in the gue/ngl group have made our choice. we here once again express our support for the russian citizens who are demanding that their government respect their most fundamental rights. we call in particular on the russian authorities to stop harassing ngos and undermining the necessary independence of the judiciary. we recall that respect for the rights of the opposition is the sine qua non of effective democracy. i am not sure that the case of mr navalny, who speaks in the most sulphurous terms, is a very good example. but it is precisely for all these reasons that we are calling for the resumption of dialogue with russia, as is being done elsewhere, without concessions, but without the will to dominate, to hegemonize or to humiliate, as is being done with many other countries in this house.
author. - madam president, it is in a particular context that this unsustainable massacre of 148 people, including 132 children, reminds us that muslims are the first victims of terrorist violence. in pakistan, as elsewhere, it is imperative to understand that it is not through exceptional laws and courts that one defends freedom from its enemies. pakistan has set up military courts to try terrorists and has just lifted the moratorium on the death penalty. since the attack, 16 people have been sentenced to death and 500 more are expected to be executed in the coming weeks. eight thousand people are on death row, i hear. fear and security over-runs can only exacerbate an endless cycle of violence that is tantamount to falling into the trap set by those who exacerbate tensions, stoke hatred and then recruit new followers. the status quo is unacceptable, but should the pakistani government not also look at the relationship between its army and various jihadist groups that are tolerated or even exploited? in this kind of game, civilians are always the first victims. this horror is here to show us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at war with a form of islam: global and fundamentalist islam, which recognizes only the ummah as a nation and the koran as its constitution. in this war, we need allies. the pakistani army is waging a merciless war against the pakistani and afghan taliban and we must support them. unfortunately, the fundamentalists have no boundaries. in retaliation, they did not hesitate to massacre more than 130 children of pakistani military personnel in a school in peshawar on december 16, 2014. but pakistan must be consistent. if he is really at war with us against fundamentalism, he cannot tolerate that his judicial system remains under the influence of fundamentalist behaviour. there can be no christians sentenced to death for blasphemy or shiites left to the vengeance of the people. efforts must be made on both sides. we are prepared to recognize an alliance with pakistan against fundamentalism and to accept its unrelenting firmness against the taliban, on the condition, however, that that state eases the sanction against blasphemy and protects its christian and shia minorities.
in writing. as a member of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, i am particularly concerned about the situation in pakistan. a study trip is planned soon. i hope that it will enable meps to better understand the complex game of influence in this country. more than 130 children of pakistani soldiers were massacred in a school in peshawar. the attack, claimed by the tehrik-i-taliban pakistan (ttp), was particularly badly received in the muslim world. nearly 60 radical islamists were arrested recently for inciting hatred. is this a turning point in pakistani politics? it's too early to tell. it should be noted that the armed forces of this country are fighting hard against the afghan and pakistani taliban. however, we can regret that the pakistani judicial system continues to adopt fundamentalist attitudes on many issues such as the conviction of christians for blasphemy and the lynching of shiites. we are ready to help pakistan in its fight against fundamentalism. but it is right that this country should make efforts to protect its minorities.
in writing. on 30 june 2014, emily o'reilly stated that her ambition was 'to encourage the eu institutions to become more efficient, transparent and accountable, by strategically increasing the visibility and impact of the european ombudsman's work'. there is still a lot of work to be done, particularly with regard to the european commission, which has a record number of complaints to the ombudsman. 64% of the cases dealt with by the institution concern the european commission, as my colleague mr edouard ferrand said in the house. i abstained on this annual report, which does not, in my view, deal sufficiently with the opacity of the working methods of all the eu institutions. an opacity that undermines the democratic functioning as we would conceive it.
in writing. this annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013 tells us that 23 245 citizens sought the services of the ombudsman for assistance in 2013 and that 2 420 requests were registered as complaints (compared to 2 442 in 2012). the complaints concerned mainly access to documents, institutional or political issues, staff and competitions and selection procedures. this report thus shows the progress to be made in the area of transparency, both within the eu and in the member states. eu agencies are directly affected by this lack of transparency, as the share of complaints concerning them has almost doubled from 12,5% in 2012 to 24% in 2013. the european personnel selection office (epso) has seen a sharp decline, as has the european parliament, but this is a clear indication that the eu, which is so quick to give lessons in good conduct and transparency, should first learn to sweep in front of its own door. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the ombudsman's activity in 2015. it was an opportunity to pay tribute to the work of the previous ombudsman, nikiforos diamandouros, and to reiterate my support for mrs o'reilly. the european ombudsman's task is of the utmost importance. it is a link between the european institutions and the citizens. it ensures the protection of the rights of european citizens and strengthens the democratic character of the european union. i appreciate the fact that the ombudsman is implementing new strategies to address the many transparency questions that our citizens have, particularly with regard to the negotiations for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership.
in writing. since taking up her post in october 2013, ms o'reilly has been reflecting on the role of the european ombudsman and its role in serving european citizens. as a key element of the democratisation of the european political and administrative system, the ombudsman opened 341 inquiries at the request of european citizens and nine own-initiative inquiries in 2013 and closed 441 inquiries and 20 own-initiative inquiries. it also published a new version of the european code of good administrative behaviour, while calling on the new commission to adopt binding rules and principles on the administrative procedure of the european institutions and to present a draft regulation in this regard. this work was welcomed and mrs o'reilly was confirmed in her post at the plenary session last december. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. by ensuring good administration in the institutions and bodies of the european union, the european ombudsman plays a key role in improving the severely damaged link between the european union and natural or legal persons in the member states. that is why i support its action and the necessary means associated with it. transparency, ethical issues and citizen participation in decision-making in the union are essential elements in the restoration of the now frayed link. the ambition of the new european ombudsman emily o'reilly to help strengthen structures and institutions in terms of accountability and transparency at european level is therefore in the right direction. nevertheless, it is important to include concrete figures in all annual reports so that year-to-year comparisons can be made.
in writing. the european ombudsman plays a key role in democratic control within the european union. it is responsible for investigating cases of maladministration in the european institutions, thus strengthening the rights of european citizens. i welcome the adoption of the ombudsman's 2013 activities report, as it highlights the work done by ms o'reilly, ombudsman since october 2013, to make the office more accessible to citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2013. the european ombudsman is independent and impartial in examining complaints against the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and in investigating cases of maladministration. in 2013, 23 245 citizens sought the ombudsman's services and 2 420 complaints were registered. mrs o'reilly has done an encouraging job in promoting the transparency of the institutions and the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the walesa report on the 2013 annual report of the european ombudsman. this report sheds light on the issues that should guide the ombudsman's work in collaboration with the european parliament, the council of the union and the european commission. it also stresses the quality of the ombudsman's work in 2013, which led to emily o'reilly being re-elected as european ombudsman by the european parliament in december 2014.
in writing. the european ombudsman investigates complaints against eu institutions and bodies in cases of maladministration. the report by the right-wing member of parliament refuses to draw up any political assessment of his annual work. fortunately, many of my group's amendments address this, starting with the cases of fraud and conflicts of interest within the commission revealed by the ombudsman. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i am voting for this report to support the political significance of these words at the dawn of a possible syriza government in greece.
the report on the activities of the european ombudsman shows how completely disconnected the european union is from the concerns of the citizens of the member states. in 2013, fewer than 24 000 citizens consulted the ombudsman's services and only 461 inquiries were closed, which is ridiculous in view of the activity of the french ombudsman, for example, who dealt with almost 90 000 cases in 2011 alone. this figure shows the lack of interest of the citizens of each member state in european procedures and institutions. the ombudsman also asked the commission to respect the basic rules of transparency regarding the ttip and ceta negotiations. the commission has not taken these recommendations into account, nor has it informed the members of the european parliament of the ins and outs of the negotiations on these free trade agreements. so no, the european ombudsman is not up to the challenge and weighs almost nothing against the all-powerful european commission. that is why i abstained on the vote on this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the european ombudsman's activity in 2013. the european ombudsman, emily o'reilly, has done an excellent job in 2013 in assisting more than 23 000 european citizens. it also extended and strengthened its relationship with the european parliament. this work was therefore to be commended and encouraged.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which takes a positive view of the ombudsman's activities in 2013. the report highlights the problems of transparency within the european commission, in particular the opacity of the transatlantic treaty negotiations, conflicts of interest among senior officials and issues of ethics or fundamental rights.
in writing. only 23 245 citizens used the ombudsman's services in 2013. the fact that the european institutions do not function to near-perfection shows that citizens do not see the point in having recourse to the ombudsman. it is therefore an institution that is far too expensive for its usefulness. however, this is one of the few existing remedies against the commission, which is the main subject of complaints. i therefore abstain, because i do not want to support this costly system or deprive the peoples of a voice-bearing channel.
in writing. the european ombudsman is a key institutional tool for ensuring the rule of law in europe. through it, citizens have direct access to legal remedies when they consider themselves disadvantaged in relation to the administration of the european union. in this respect, i welcome the immense work of the european ombudsman and some of the elements of his report, such as greater transparency in the european administration and in the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the ombudsman's report. mediation plays a vital role in our societies, and the establishment of a european ombudsman was a good thing: citizens, businesses, must be able to expose possible cases of maladministration by eu institutions and agencies. this annual report provides valuable information on areas where improvements are urgently needed to make the eu more effective and more responsive to the expectations of citizens and businesses, in particular by respecting procedures, eliminating discrimination and introducing greater transparency into the european policy-making process. beyond this report, we are also commenting on the work of the european ombudsman: more than 20 000 complaints were lodged with his services in 2013, not to mention the investigations opened on his own initiative. some of the points raised should make us sweep our doors, such as the suspected cases of former european officials who are in the private sector in their field of expertise and could thus be faced with potential conflicts of interest.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to highlight the work done by the european ombudsman during the first year of his mandate. the text recalls that the subject of transparency is at the top of the inquiries conducted by the ombudsman (representing 64.3% of inquiries). the lack of transparency in the negotiations of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) was also part of these investigations. finally, it is important that each eu body or institution takes the ombudsman's remarks into account and responds promptly. to this end, the ombudsman must continue his efforts to communicate with european citizens.
in writing. the high tension in libya is largely the fault of european leaders who allowed internal conflicts to fester after armed interventions to remove the leader of a country in civil war. france has intervened swiftly but without measuring the consequences, particularly with regard to the development of radical islam which had been contained until then. i therefore voted against this resolution, which ignores part of the historical reality of libya's internal problems.
in writing. in 2011, the un security council voted to establish a no-fly zone over libya, which is in the midst of a civil war between forces loyal to colonel gaddafi and armed rebel groups, often backed by qatar and saudi arabia. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the national front had then denounced the foreseeable consequences of this assistance: proliferation of weapons in the region, strengthening of radical islamist armed groups, destabilisation of the entire region. four years later, these predictions have unfortunately proved to be accurate, to the extent that france had to go to mali to fight the same islamists it had helped and armed in libya. i voted against this resolution which puts the european parliament in the role of the arsonist. it is too easy to condemn in statements of principle a situation which one has helped to create.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because, in the wake of the military interventions of some states in libya, the situation in the country has shown the inadequacies of european diplomacy. i wish for a truly comprehensive strategic vision of european union diplomacy.
in writing. after the gaddafi regime and the aftermath of the arab spring, libya is now in a situation of extreme instability. two different governments coexist in libya, one in tripoli and one in tobruk (after the 2014 elections) and the incessant wars continue to cause harm to the civilian population who suffer and, in the end, find themselves less well off than under the previous regime. this situation is all the more disastrous because it is causing thousands of libyans to emigrate to malta or italy. the french intervention, back then under president sarkozy, to support the rebels against the regime in place has now helped to finance islamic terrorism and encourage mass immigration to europe, which can no longer afford to take in refugees. this motion for a resolution sums up the whole paradox of the eu and the leaders of the system trying to give themselves a good conscience when they are the instigators of the chaos that is currently unfolding in libya. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution on the situation in libya. indeed, the current state of affairs in this country is the direct consequence of the insane policy pursued by france and the european union, with the united states in tow. the libyan government has also been accused of violating the international law by using the libyan flag to attack the libyan people. the motion for a resolution states that the country is "torn by political infighting which has turned into a violent power struggle between two competing government bodies and many rival factions (...) nationalist, islamist, tribal and regionalist forces". the islamic state has established a foothold in libya and parts of its territory have become terrorist sanctuaries. we are passively witnessing a "somalization" of the region and sending our ministers with bags of rice would not change much.
in writing. in a motion for a resolution, which contains no less than 20 'considerations', the european parliament expresses concern at the escalation of violence in libya and paints a bleak picture of a country in the process of partition and in the grip of a full-blown civil war. all this would not have been possible without the scandalous military intervention operation involving france, the united kingdom, canada and the united states, which was aimed at overthrowing the regime of muammar gaddafi. the european union has acted like a true pyromaniac fireman and has blown on the embers of division, mechanically driving the progress of islamic jihadism. today, the islamic state is preparing to develop local antennas in the east of the country, christians are being kidnapped and massacred, borders are no longer controlled, thus facilitating the illegal migration of sub-saharan africans. in keeping with the maxim that 'no one can take advantage of his own depravity', i naturally voted against this motion for a resolution in order to deny the european union any legitimacy to speak out on the matter.
in writing. the escalation of violence in libya is a matter of serious concern to the european union. it's a real civil war going on over there. the country is now controlled by former rebel militias who are fighting over territory. the conflict has also facilitated the emergence of terrorist groups such as the islamic state. this is a threat not only to the region but also to the european union. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for targeted and strong sanctions against the libyan leaders responsible for this violence.
in writing. i voted against this resolution which once again proves that the european union is suffering from the pyromaniac firefighter syndrome. the european parliament is surprised by the serious situation of civil war in libya after supporting actions to destabilise the country: military intervention by the french, british, american and canadian armed forces under the auspices of nato is at the origin of the strengthening of terrorist groups in this part of the world. i could not therefore vote in favour of this text which advocates further european union interference in the area: we do not send the arsonist to put out the fire he himself has started.
in writing. the political and security situation in libya is worrying and requires a rapid and lasting response. that is why i voted for the european parliament's resolution calling on all parties to a ceasefire and affirming its support for the un mission in libya. the libyan crisis is first and foremost a tragedy for the libyans themselves and constitutes a threat not only to the stability of the region but also to european security. we must also be particularly vigilant in the case of religious minorities, including christians, who have recently been abducted by members of the ansar al-sharia militia. i also voted for an amendment calling on multinational companies to refrain from entering into transactions involving libyan oil which could finance militias and asking european companies operating in libya to disclose their financial transactions in the energy sector.
in writing. the conflict between militias and the army in libya is of great concern. this deleterious climate, which has allowed the proliferation of terrorist groups and extremist movements, threatens not only the stability of the region but also all countries that are currently confronted with terrorism. the escalation of this violence must be avoided and the spread of the conflict, particularly to the sahel, an extremely sensitive area with dangerous trafficking, including arms, must be stopped. the eu must adopt targeted sanctions against all those allegedly responsible for armed violence and human rights violations. these sanctions must also be applied to the leaders of armed groups who are boycotting the un-led negotiations and undermining the peace process. it must also work to ensure that the parties to the conflict agree without delay to a freeze in military operations in order to create a favourable environment for the crisis to be resolved. the eeas and national diplomatic services must coordinate to address a critical humanitarian situation and help establish a stable and democratic state. the mandate of eubamlibye, which is currently suspended and transferred to tunisia, should be revised to allow it to participate in a un stabilisation mission.
in writing. in 2011, the un security council voted to establish a no-fly zone over libya, which is in the midst of a civil war between forces loyal to colonel gaddafi and armed rebel groups, often backed by qatar and saudi arabia. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the national front had denounced the foreseeable consequences of this assistance: proliferation of arms in the region, strengthening of radical islamist armed groups, destabilization of the entire region. four years later, these predictions have unfortunately proved to be accurate, to the extent that france had to go to mali to fight the same islamists it had helped and armed in libya. i voted against this resolution which puts the european parliament in the role of the arsonist. it is too easy to condemn in statements of principle a situation which one has helped to create.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in libya. the text condemns the escalation of violence, particularly against civilians, and calls for an unconditional ceasefire between the various parties to the conflict. parliament also expressed its support for the official libyan authorities following the elections in june 2014 and called on the countries of the region to contribute to a peaceful settlement of the situation. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i wanted to be a co-signer of the epp resolution on the deteriorating security situation in libya, which is bringing the country to the brink of implosion. the growing presence in libya of terrorist groups linked to al-qaeda, militias calling themselves the islamic state and foreign fighters poses a very serious threat to the stability of the maghreb and the sahel region. it also represents a threat to security in europe which should not be underestimated. for the time being, the eu must focus on supporting a political settlement to the libyan conflict. in addition, i particularly welcome the adoption of recital o and paragraph 14 which stress the persecution of christians and the need for the eu to monitor the protection of the rights of religious minorities in bilateral agreements.
in writing. libya is moving towards a situation of chaos and total civil war. this situation unfortunately confirms the analysis of the national front, which from the beginning of the so-called "arab spring" warned of the dangers of an islamist takeover, namely the disintegration of the country, the introduction of sharia law and the disappearance of the libyan state. today we are witnessing the establishment and strengthening of terrorist groups such as the islamic state and al-qaeda in libya. this is a serious threat to the security of the region and europe. another equally dramatic consequence was the explosion of illegal immigration to europe and france, and its ensuing human tragedy, particularly in the mediterranean sea. incredibly, this joint resolution of the political groups in this parliament does not make any self-criticism, whereas the european union, in its foreign policy choices, has been a feudal power in the united states, actively encouraging and supporting the 'arab spring' which has brought fire and blood to libya.
in writing. i voted in favour of this amendment because its purpose is to call on the international community to do everything possible to protect religious minorities in libya, especially the christian minorities who are particularly affected by the serious disturbances taking place there.
in writing. libya is in the grip of militia fighting. many civilians are subjected to abuses simply because of their ethnicity or religious affiliation. the extreme deterioration of living conditions has forced hundreds of thousands of libyans into exile. this resolution calls for a "political" solution to the current conflict. but as is often the case, this text does not seek to establish any responsibility for the manufacture of this chaos. not a word about the nato intervention, which had exceeded the un mandate (to protect the people) by bringing down the regime. moreover, nato is called upon to "cooperate" with the eu in "the creation of security forces" in the region. nor is there any mention of the control of natural resources and their current control by american and european firms. i vote against this hypocritical text.
in writing. in a motion for a resolution, which contains no less than 20 'considerations', the european parliament expresses concern at the escalation of violence in libya and paints a picture of a country in partition and subject to a full-scale civil war. all this would not have been possible without the scandalous military intervention operation involving france, the united kingdom, canada and the united states, which was aimed at overthrowing the regime of muammar gaddafi. the european union has acted like a true pyromaniac fireman and has blown on the embers of division, mechanically driving the progress of islamic jihadism. today, the islamic state is preparing to develop local antennas in the east of the country, christians are being kidnapped and massacred, borders are no longer controlled, thus facilitating the illegal migration of sub-saharan africans. in keeping with the maxim that 'no one can take advantage of his own depravity', i naturally voted against this motion for a resolution in order to deny the european union any legitimacy to speak out on the matter.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which strongly condemns the recent abuses against civilians by the various libyan political factions and welcomes the efforts made by the un to bring the warring parties to the negotiating table. the text calls on the european union to support the peace efforts jointly undertaken by the un, the african union and the league of arab states by punishing those responsible for the violence and by combating the development of terrorist movements on libyan soil.
in writing. while this resolution acknowledges the situation of total chaos and rising violence in libya, it overlooks the place of european and american intervention in the situation in which the country is currently found. i therefore abstained on that vote.
in writing. this resolution is a set of wishful thinking far from being up to the task. the consequences of the situation in libya are disastrous, firstly for libyans, victims of the violence of islamists and criminals, but also for migrants from various countries who believe they can find salvation by coming to libya to seek passage to europe, enriching human traffickers, and finally for the countries of the european union, which cannot afford to take in so many refugees and which are spending ever more considerable sums in vain attempts to deal with the consequences rather than the causes. i cannot therefore support such a weak resolution in these circumstances and i am against it.
in writing. the situation in libya, not to mention its overall impact, is becoming increasingly worrying, and it is now urgent that the european union take a position once and for all on the actors in the libyan civil war. i approve of such a recommendation. the european union must set itself a long-term policy commensurate with its resources, promoting stability and security in the area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which recalls and stresses the urgency of the situation in libya. it is essential that a solution be found that brings a lasting end to this crisis. at the very moment when the parties to the conflict are meeting in geneva, it is important to reaffirm that dialogue between the parties is paramount. the european union must step up its support and assistance alongside the un special representative for libya, bernardino león, in his actions built around the ghadames roadmap.
in writing. the situation in libya is dramatic. in reality, there is no libyan state anymore. the first victim of this situation is the libyan people. negotiations are under way under the auspices of the un. the resolution calls for dialogue and supports the search for political solutions, excluding any military intervention. we can only be happy about that. however, peaceful solutions must be given priority. but there are still some doubts. the resolution is completely lacking in detail on the previous interventions and their consequences, and therefore on the responsibilities of both parties in this matter. the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl on these responsibilities and the role of nato in the region were all rejected. all this is not up to the challenge. i did not, however, vote for the motion, thinking first of all of the libyan people.
in writing. louis aliot spoke out against the resolution as it prolongs the economic sanctions against russia. the eu must remain an ally and not the other way around, and the framework for diplomatic relations between the eu and russia must be based on mutual understanding and a lasting partnership. moreover, these sanctions have serious consequences for russian households that are not responsible for the dismemberment of ukraine.
in writing. i voted against a resolution which is contrary to the interests of france and the member states of the union. the extension of sanctions to energy, and particularly gas, is a serious blow to the energy policy of the member states of the union. this is a policy that serves the united states exclusively, which is the only beneficiary of the deterioration of energy relations between the european union and russia.
in writing. the european union, in the ukrainian conflict, has only succeeded in aggravating the situation from the beginning. by openly supporting ukraine through its association agreements and by refusing to recognise the referendum in crimea, it has opened up negotiations for ukraine's accession to the eu and has opened up its markets fully. all this without resolving the situation on the ground, which is still unstable. the eu claims to support ukrainian independence and integrity, but has been using its right of interference since the beginning of the conflict and is thus increasing tensions with russia in a very sensitive situation. the eu is the area in the world with the highest unemployment and the lowest growth. there is no point in trying to apply to other countries the bitter potion it inflicts on itself. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution on the situation in ukraine it is doubtful, as the resolution suggests, that 'it would be useful for the european union and the united states to cooperate more closely on policies relating to ukraine'. condemning "the aggressive and expansionist policy of russia" would only increase tensions. the merger of the cases, from the point of view of public international law, of crimea and the donetsk and lugansk regions is approximate. i note the call to 'the ukrainian leadership to eradicate systematic corruption by implementing the national anti-corruption strategy without further delay and effectively'. let's judge them by the results. we can see a change in the high representative's attitude. few regret the fading of baroness ashton's action. the high representative spoke last week in riga about the possible lifting of sanctions against russia. she saw positive signs coming from moscow. but, alas, the european union and its allies are not appeasing the situation. the search for a political and diplomatic solution, respectful of the people, should be given priority. it's time you stopped being the carrier of american diplomacy. this fratricidal conflict has gone on too long.
in writing. the european parliament proposed a draft resolution which was unambiguous, full of anti-russian ideology and manifestly in bad faith. the text clearly assumes the demand for greater us involvement in a conflict that has nothing to do with the united states. but above all, one sentence should be taken from this text: 'expresses its full solidarity with ukraine and its people; wishes to reiterate its commitment to ukraine's independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity, inviolability of its borders and european choice'. how can the european union claim to defend sovereignty and territorial integrity when it is built on the dilution of the sovereignty of the peoples and has made territorial integrity meaningless by imposing the principle of free movement? but the most shocking thing is that the european union is completely silent about the multiple human rights violations and massacres committed by the ukrainian military, the latest being the death of 30 civilians in the gorlovka district as a result of bombing by the ukrainian air force on sunday, january 18, 2015. for all these reasons, i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted against this text which, once again, gives an ideological reading of the historical, political and geopolitical reality of the ukrainian crisis. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. when one is fundamentally committed to freedom and political pluralism as i am, one cannot decently vote in favour of a resolution which also admits that the medium-term objective is to integrate ukraine into nato in order to encircle russia. i remain deeply attached to the principle of the sovereignty of nation states, which is why i refuse to support the fact that eu member states become mere prefects of american politics.
in writing. taking into account developments in ukraine, the resolution welcomes the positive organisation of the elections on 26 october, which took place despite the ongoing conflict in the east of the country and the annexation of crimea, and calls for the eu sanctions regime against russia to be maintained. i am also pleased that the european parliament reiterates its support for and commitment to the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine and the inviolability of its borders. the ukrainian government has made a clear choice to strengthen ties with the european union, a choice which must be understood. it is therefore essential to support ukraine in implementing the reforms needed to address its current economic and political difficulties. i therefore support the european commission's decision to offer ukraine macrofinancial assistance of up to eur 1.8 billion in the form of medium-term loans. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in recent weeks, violence has intensified in ukraine. european diplomacy must mobilize and act. the solution to the crisis in the region is to bring all the actors together around the table. we must be a mediating force and have a comprehensive approach to russia: we must maintain the sanctions regime without, however, closing the door to dialogue with putin while making respect for ukrainian sovereignty a precondition. this position should not prevent the consideration of a more federal solution in ukraine. at the same time, it is important to settle the gas issue so that its price escapes the context and political blackmail. finally, the european union must stand by the ukrainians. the crisis is far from over. we must help them more through financial aid and emergency humanitarian aid but also in the reforms that the country so badly needs.
in writing. i voted against a resolution which is against the interests of france and europe. the extension of the sanctions to the energy sector, and particularly to gas, is a serious blow to the continent's energy policy. this is a policy that is exclusively in the interests of the united states, which is benefiting from a deterioration in our energy relations with russia.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in ukraine. the text reiterates the european parliament's support for the legitimate government of ukraine and condemns russia's expansionist policy in ukraine. parliament therefore supports the maintenance of a sanctions regime against russia, while leaving the door open to discussions to resolve the conflict. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i voted in favour of this new resolution on ukraine which calls for a political solution to a crisis that is becoming entrenched and could turn into a frozen conflict in eastern ukraine and crimea. after nine months of fighting, more than 4,700 people have been killed, many of them civilians, and ukrainians seem resigned to new clashes. the eu must remain firm towards russia but the diplomatic channel must be strengthened to encourage it to actively participate in the search for a peaceful solution to the conflict. the minsk ceasefire agreements of september 2014 and the subsequent peace memorandum must be strictly implemented in order to allow the creation of a 30 km wide demilitarised zone and a special status for the donetsk and lugansk republics.
in writing. this text, in continuity with the previous ones, aims to shift the responsibility for the ukrainian conflict to russia alone. it ignores the various reports of international organizations and ngos strongly condemning the barbaric acts of the ukrainian army and its fascist militias. the text provides for european support for the ukrainian army by sending defensive weapons. the insurgents in donbass, who enjoy very strong local civilian support, are also called terrorists. the choice to deprive ourselves of energy trade with russia is clearly assumed as an objective, despite its economic and diplomatic absurdity. finally, the text envisages the creation of a communication strategy to counter russian propaganda and the "development of instruments which would enable the eu and its members to make their own propaganda at european and national level". so our media, already massively anti-russian, is not enough, we must create instruments of propaganda assumed at european level. remember, propaganda is not information. so are we at war with russia? i vote against it.
in writing. the european parliament proposed a draft resolution which was unambiguous, full of anti-russian ideology and manifestly in bad faith. the text clearly assumes the demand for greater us involvement in a conflict that has nothing to do with the united states. but above all, one sentence should be taken from this text: 'expresses its full solidarity with ukraine and its people; wishes to reiterate its commitment to ukraine's independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity, inviolability of its borders and european choice'. how can the european union claim to defend sovereignty and territorial integrity when it is built on the dilution of the sovereignty of the peoples and has made territorial integrity meaningless by imposing the principle of free movement? but what is most shocking is that the european union is completely silent about the multiple human rights violations and massacres committed by the ukrainian military, the latest being the death of 30 civilians in the gorlovka district as a result of bombing by the ukrainian air force. for all these reasons, i have of course voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution on the situation in ukraine because it is clearly one-sided in favour of the government in kiev, while the situation on the ground does not allow for such a biased position, especially when one knows that one of the causes of the conflict currently tearing ukraine apart was the direct support of the eu for the rapprochement between kiev and brussels.
in writing. accusing russia of aggravating the situation, the european parliament proposes to send arms to the government in kiev. the european union has once again failed to act as a mediator in the peace process and is leading a country towards civil war without even seeming to realize it. such a vague resolution, which is the sole responsibility of russia and does not call into question the attitude of the government in kiev, is unacceptable. i therefore vote against.
in writing. repeated violations of ceasefires by pro-russian forces are a fact. i therefore commend the courage of the members of the european parliament in reporting on the situation in ukraine. it is a matter of great indignation that the violations of the minsk agreements are undermining relations between russia and ukraine, but above all are damaging the well-being of the people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns russia's actions in ukraine and expresses its full solidarity with it. we call on the european council in particular to put the matter on the table at the summit in march and to adopt a strict framework for determining whether or not sanctions can be lifted. in addition, ukraine needs external support to cope with the current situation: we call on the european union to act urgently in the face of the humanitarian crisis currently affecting it, and to provide more substantial technical assistance, including the secondment of advisers to help implement reforms.
in writing. in view of the difficult situation in ukraine, the european union must reiterate its support for its neighbour, who has embarked on a major reform process. we must encourage ukraine to continue its efforts to implement the eu-ukraine association agreement, including the completion of a comprehensive and deep free trade agreement. it is also imperative that russia abide by the ceasefire, withdraw russian troops and illegal armed groups from ukrainian territory and respect the territorial integrity of ukraine. finally, it should be noted that in this resolution the european parliament asks the commission to present a communication strategy in the near future to counter the various communication campaigns launched by russia and directed in particular at the eu.
in writing. with this resolution, the european parliament has once again lost an opportunity to live up to the european values of peace and dialogue between peoples. unlike the gue/ngl resolution which rejects any manichean vision, this resolution defends a unilateral pro-ukrainian stance without any nuance. by demonizing russian diplomacy and the ukrainian opposition forces, without ever mentioning other interference in the country, or even the participation of far-right ministers in the government of petro poroshenko, this text clearly takes sides in this conflict, when there is more need than ever for mediation. the european union is backsliding on its so-called values, and above all on the right of self-determination of peoples. ukraine must not become the centre of a new conflict between cold war-style imperialisms, both in the interests of its people and for the european and global geopolitical balance. likewise, more than ever, we must beware of self-fulfilling prophecies about a so-called war of civilizations. so i again opposed the resolution.
in writing. in this resolution, parliament expresses its deep concern at the widespread violation of democratic rights in egypt, condemns once again the military coup and the brutal repression by the egyptian army, deplores the loss of life and more. if everyone agrees unanimously with these beautiful phrases, it is not enough to lament, condemn and worry about solving problems, but to give our real support to those who are fighting to defend a democratic model for egypt. i voted against this text, which rejects any outside interference in order to promote democratic values and to combat persecution of all kinds (especially against women and christians).
in writing. following the overthrow of marshal mubarak in 2011, egypt experienced a period of social and religious unrest that culminated in the coming to power of mohammed morsi, a member of the muslim brotherhood, an organization affiliated with the emirate of qatar. the muslim brotherhood government has been relentless in its efforts to transform egypt into an islamist society, to demote sharia as the sole source of law and to discriminate against christians, who make up 10% of the population, while turning a blind eye to the violence against them. since the coming to power of marshal al-sissi, the egyptian government has been fighting against the attempts of the muslim brotherhood to radicalize egyptian society in order to return to power. the new egyptian constitution is the most favorable to religious minorities that egypt has ever had. president al-sissi, a devout muslim himself, attended the christmas mass celebrated by the coptic orthodox pope in solidarity with egyptian christians. for all these reasons, i think that the european parliament should support the reformist intentions of the egyptian government rather than try to impose sanctions on it to prevent it from fighting the muslim brotherhood.
in writing. three years after the egyptian people's uprising and the resignation of hosni mubarak, and since the fall of the muslim brotherhood-led morsi government, egypt is ruled by general al-sissi. the situation is catastrophic, with a near-permanent civil war, and repressive measures have been taken. the new constitution, however, was approved by 98% of egyptians and president al-sissi was elected with 96% of the vote (doubling the number of votes of former president morsi). in the face of the rise of radical islamism and muslim fundamentalism in the arab world, which have tried to surf the post-arab spring and the vacuum left, the situation is still not serene and it is clear that only stability will allow these countries like egypt to find the path of progress and democratization in order to avoid the grip of the sharia. i therefore voted against this text, which does not solve the situation in any way.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution. the resolution 'welcomes and encourages the measures taken by the egyptian government to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of religious communities; recalls that article 235 of the egyptian constitution provides that during its first parliamentary term, the newly elected parliament must adopt a law to organise the construction and renovation of churches, guaranteeing the freedom of christians to worship; welcomes the unprecedented presence of president al-sissi at a coptic christmas mass in a church in cairo and considers it an important symbolic gesture in the efforts to promote the unity of egyptian society.' but european governments destabilized the secular regimes in the region. we're starting to feel the effects. the result of european policies has been catastrophic. the efforts of the countries of the region to combat fundamentalism should be supported.
in writing. the european parliament is concerned in this draft resolution about the repressive policy being pursued against the muslim brotherhood. blinded by their right to humanism, meps fail to understand that the regime of marshal al sissi is one of the only ones waging a relentless war against islamic fundamentalism. it is also becoming suspicious to see the european parliament condemning the variable geometry. indeed, when will there be a motion for a resolution to denounce the anti-shia policy of the ultra-minority regime in bahrain? when will a resolution demand that qatar stop tolerating the real slave-like practices against nepalese migrants? when will there be a firm condemnation of saudi arabia's laws, which prohibit women from driving? i voted against this motion for a resolution pending clarification.
in writing. i voted against this resolution which, in an unrealistic way, attacks the power of marshal al-sissi, currently one of the only bulwarks against islamic fundamentalism. the regimes we must rely on are facing considerable islamist pressure. what would be the level of rule of law in france, in the egyptian situation, when we see the state of shock of the french power caused by 3 terrorists? i would remind you that egypt and its security forces in particular have had over 500 deaths in the last 18 months. abdel fatah al-sissi has issued an extraordinary appeal from the largest arab country. he demanded that islam itself be purged of its violence. he called for a religious revolution. in these circumstances, it seemed to me unrealistic to vote in favour of a resolution which, once again, by its interference, puts a regime, imperfect though it is, in difficulty, but the only one capable of containing the terrorist threat in egypt and in that part of the world.
in writing. there are very serious human rights restrictions going on in egypt right now. these include in particular obstacles to freedom of expression, association and assembly, violations of political pluralism and the rule of law, and very worrying violence against women. the egyptian authorities must immediately end the repression of a population peacefully exercising its rights and ensure that politically sensitive trials are fair and regular. parliament condemned in the strongest terms the violence against journalists, protesters and political opponents and the detention of prisoners of conscience and called on the external action services to exercise vigilance. the union and its member states should also prohibit the export of military equipment or surveillance or intrusion technology that could be used in violation of the fundamental principles of law.
in writing. following the overthrow of marshal mubarak in 2011, egypt experienced a period of social and religious unrest that culminated in the coming to power of mohammed morsi, a member of the muslim brotherhood, an organization affiliated with the emirate of qatar. the muslim brotherhood government has been relentless in its efforts to transform egypt into an islamist society, to demote sharia as the sole source of law and to discriminate against christians, who make up 10% of the population, while turning a blind eye to the violence against them. since the coming to power of marshal al-sissi, the egyptian government has been fighting against the attempts of the muslim brotherhood to radicalize egyptian society in order to return to power. the new egyptian constitution is the most favorable to religious minorities that egypt has ever had. president al-sissi, a devout muslim himself, attended the christmas mass celebrated by the coptic orthodox pope in solidarity with egyptian christians. for all these reasons, i think that the european parliament should support the reformist intentions of the egyptian government rather than try to impose sanctions on it to prevent it from fighting the muslim brotherhood.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in egypt. the text condemns the repression of political opponents and the media and calls for the release of prisoners of conscience. although egypt is one of the european union's main partners in the region and a stabilizing factor, the protection of human rights and freedom of opinion is not optional. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. the parliament's resolution rightly stresses the importance of egypt as a major neighbour and partner. egypt plays an active and vital role in the stability of the mediterranean and the middle east. the country has a long way to go in democratization, particularly in terms of freedom of expression and association, and in terms of combating violence against women. however, president al-sissi's presence at a coptic church in cairo during the christmas mass and his commitment to protect christians and guarantee their freedom of worship are to be welcomed. we must help egypt to combat terrorism, particularly in the sinai peninsula. the european union and the member states should also welcome the parliamentary elections announced for 21 march and 25 april, and send an observer mission.
in writing. this resolution has a double message. on the one hand, it criticises the general repression in egypt: tens of thousands of people imprisoned after the military coup and hundreds of people sentenced to death in mass trials. but on the other hand, it supports the government of al-sissi, as egypt is a strategic partner of the eu (and the us). it should be noted that at the same time a free trade agreement is being negotiated with the eu. under the circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. the european parliament is concerned in this draft resolution about the repressive policy being pursued against the muslim brotherhood. blinded by their right to humanism, meps fail to understand that the regime of marshal al sissi is one of the only ones waging a relentless war against islamic fundamentalism. it is also becoming suspicious to see the european parliament condemning the variable geometry. when will there be a motion for a resolution condemning the anti-shia policy of the ultra-minority regime in bahrain? when will a resolution demand that qatar stop tolerating the real slave-like practices against nepalese migrants? when will there be a firm condemnation of saudi arabia's laws, which prohibit women from driving? i voted against this motion for a resolution pending clarification.
in writing. despite the criticism expressed in this resolution against the abusive police repression and use of the death penalty in egypt, the text continues to show support for the al-sissi regime as a strategic partner of the eu and the us. i abstained on this text because i believe that the fight against extremism does not justify the neglect of democratic rights, and i do not see why europe should interfere in the political choices of the egyptian people.
in writing. the proposed resolution is ridiculously short of the stakes. to think that the urgent need in egypt is to establish a pluralistic society that is tolerant of the muslim brotherhood is not meaningful at a time when the so-called islamic state is expanding its hold. it is also absolutely wrong to think that a pluralistic society is necessarily less conflictual, as we can see with the rise in tensions and jihadist deviations in all the countries of the european union. i vote against this resolution.
in writing. the situation in egypt is worrying in terms of fundamental rights and i share most of the considerations in this resolution. however, i do not think that this vote is relevant at the moment. egypt is suffering from great instability and less than two months before crucial legislative elections, this text is not addressed to any interlocutor. the statements in this resolution will be dead letter until a new government is formed. therefore, i abstain. the time for legitimate criticism will come when the leaders of this country are given a voice and can be held accountable for their policies.
in writing. the situation in egypt is serious. however one thinks of the muslim brotherhood, the army overthrew a democratically elected regime and even supported by popular cheer, it was a military coup d'état that was organized by general al sisi. the methods used by the egyptian authorities since then can only reinforce this feeling. while i welcome the recognition of the multiple human rights violations committed by the egyptian authorities in the field of political pluralism, the violation of press freedom and the use of coercive methods such as arbitrary arrests and detentions, harassment, intimidation and censorship against any opposition on a large scale, this resolution seems to me to be at least contradictory. under the guise of the european union's strategic partnership in the region, it is especially advisable to continue the eu's support and assistance in carrying out so-called economic and democratic reforms along the lines of 'more for more', the pillar of the european neighbourhood policy, and we know what that means. in fact, the egyptian government is supported after some "remonstrances". the egyptian people deserve better, the priority is to restore democratic order. so i chose to abstain.
mr president, we voted for this resolution. we stress that the two italian seamen must be repatriated as this is a violation of their freedom under international law. it also points to the loss of sovereignty, in this case italy. we regret the way in which the italian governments under the various presidencies monti, letta and renzi have handled this matter and we support all the parties involved in seeking a reasonable and acceptable solution for all. we encourage the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to take all necessary steps to secure the release of the two italian seamen.
in writing. on this sad third anniversary of the case of the two italian naval officers, i naturally voted in favour of the resolution to support the jurisdiction of the italian authorities or of an international arbitration to judge the facts. to date, india has maintained that it has jurisdiction over the case, as the incident occurred in the coastal waters under its jurisdiction. these events linked to occasional diplomatic tensions must not jeopardise the security of union citizens in third countries.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because any sign of the european union today is the support that these two sailors need. we cannot turn a blind eye to the fate of these two italian soldiers, one of whom has been living in the italian embassy in india since february 2012. but let us not be deceived: the union, by this declaration, shows a weakness which is intolerable to us. i will always support the soldiers who protect the citizens of the member states, especially against the scourge of piracy.
in writing. it was time for the european union to take care of the fate of these two naval gunners who could not be abandoned after being sent on a mission against piracy. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in february 2012, in the waters off india, an accident occurred when two local fishermen were killed and two italian naval officers were found responsible and arrested. after more than 3 years of detention, they have still not been brought to justice and uncertainty remains in this case. it is becoming vital for the seamen and their families to find a quick and appropriate solution to enable them to be free and return to italy. this resolution therefore commits itself to supporting the two italian naval gunners and i therefore voted in favour of it, as did my italian colleagues in the northern league.
in writing. federica mogherini is no more effective as high representative than before, as head of italian diplomacy, in freeing her compatriots, who can be considered hostages. it is high time to stress the "extreme slowness of the procedure". these two italian naval gunners acted in the international fight against piracy. the radar data relating to this incident should be studied with the greatest care in order to establish possible responsibility. but, as the resolution notes, "three years after the events, the indian authorities have still not brought charges".
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft resolution calling for the repatriation of the two marines and for the case to be dealt with either by an italian court or by international arbitration. the conflict of interpretation as to the area where the accident occurred is a testimony to the legal deficiencies arising from the law of the sea under the montego bay convention. the principle of freedom on the high seas is increasingly under threat as states seek to control their own maritime spheres of influence.
in writing. two italian naval gunners are detained in india for shooting at two indian fishermen who were believed to be under attack by pirates. these marines are being held without charge, which is totally contrary to the principles of human rights. this situation also constitutes a diplomatic problem because of the disagreement between the indian and italian authorities as to the course of events in international or national waters. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for an immediate settlement of the situation and full respect for human rights.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because i fully support the two italian seamen, one of whom is still detained in india. these two europeans deserve to be tried by a national court, since the case took place in international waters and they were involved in anti-piracy activities.
in writing. mr latorre and mr girone have been detained in india for three years, after killing two fishermen on 15 february 2012, whom they claimed to have mistaken for pirates. victims of diplomatic tensions between italy and india and the legal uncertainty regarding the maritime, territorial or international waters in which the incident occurred, the two marines have still not been charged and no trial has been organized. in this resolution, parliament recalls the inalienable right of european citizens to a fair trial within a reasonable time. parliament also called on the italian state and india to find a mutually acceptable solution in the interests of the families of the accused and the victims. the text also calls on the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to take all necessary measures to support the italian state. i believe that the european diplomatic representation has a role to play in the resolution of this case and must guarantee the rights of mr latorre and mr girone, so i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because any sign of the eu is now the support that these two sailors need. we cannot turn a blind eye to the fate of these two italian soldiers, one of whom has been living in the italian embassy in india since february 2012. but we are not fooled: the union, by this declaration, shows a weakness which is intolerable to us. i will always support the soldiers who protect europeans, especially against the scourge of piracy.
in writing. i supported the adoption by the european parliament of a resolution on the case of the two italian naval officers who are being held in india without charge. while i am naturally saddened by the tragic death of two indian fishermen, i do believe that the consequences of the events of 15 february 2012 should be considered from the strictly rule of law perspective, ensuring that the rights of the alleged perpetrators are properly respected.
in writing. i supported the resolution calling for respect for the human and legal rights of the two italian marines arrested and detained by the indian authorities since february 2012. accused of having shot two indian fishermen in the course of their duty as guards of an italian merchant ship, these two seamen are still being held without charge and their freedom of movement is severely restricted, which is an infringement of their rights. the resolution calls on all parties, including the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, to take the necessary steps to reach a swift settlement of the matter.
in writing. on 15 february 2012, off the coast of india and in the port of cochin, an italian oil tanker escorted by members of an italian military embedded protection team (epe), consisting of six marine riflemen, crossed the path of an indian fishing vessel, the st antony. two of the e.p.e. commandos, massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, identified the ship as a pirate vessel, used their weapons and killed two fishermen. since then, the two soldiers have been detained in india, first in prison, then under house arrest in the italian embassy where they are currently. however, under international law, as the vessel was in international waters at the time of the incident, the law of the flag applies rather than the law of india. the resolution therefore calls for the repatriation of the two italian seamen. however, the partiality of this resolution which justifies the sailors opening fire makes me abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft resolution calling for the repatriation of the two marines and for the case to be dealt with either by an italian court or by international arbitration. the conflict of interpretation as to the area where the accident occurred is a testimony to the legal uncertainty surrounding the law of the sea resulting from the montego bay convention. the principle of freedom on the high seas is increasingly being called into question by the desire of states to control their own maritime sphere of influence, in the light of new geopolitical challenges.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which encourages the resolution of a dispute between italy and india. in 2012, two italian gunmen on a anti-piracy mission aboard an italian merchant ship cruising off the coast of kerala fired warning shots at an approaching indian trawler during the night. two indian fishermen were unfortunately killed in action. since then, the italian riflemen, one of whom is ill, have been kept in detention in india without any charges being brought against them. the text calls for international law to prevail in this tragic case and for a reasonable solution to be found for the parties and for the italian and indian families.
in writing. i voted against this text because it seems unacceptable to me that a resolution of the european parliament is intended to influence a judicial proceeding in india.
in writing. it is quite normal that the eu institutions should support the italian state in defending the interests of the two sailors involved in the tragic misunderstanding which cost the lives of two indian fishermen. everything must be done to ensure that they are tried quickly and fairly. i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. through this recommendation, the european parliament addresses the issue of the tragic accident between an italian merchant navy vessel and indian fishermen. the consequences of this event must be judged according to the canvas of international law, the basic requirements of the presumption of innocence and the conditions of detention. in this sense, the deteriorated diplomatic relations between italy and india should be improved in order to allow an outcome to this conflict, particularly through fair and effective legal channels.
in writing. since 2012, two italian naval officers have been detained in india and accused of killing two indian fishermen during an anti-piracy operation. i supported this resolution because it is important that a diplomatic solution to this conflict be found while respecting the principles of international law. thus, recourse to international arbitration or to italian justice in the case of the two seamen could be considered. parliament called on the vice-president and high representative to take all necessary steps and to bring all parties concerned together to find an acceptable solution.
in writing. the commission's programme for 2015, proudly entitled 'a new start for europe', is simply to go further and further into ultra-liberalism, the defence of the single currency and austerity at any cost which crushes the peoples of europe. nothing new, in fact, except the european commissioners' waltz from last october. with the recent luxleaks scandal, it is clear that this commission will not tackle the problem of tax evasion in europe or unfair competition, since its president is none other than the man who ruled luxembourg for 19 years. since the new commission came into office, i have not seen any interesting subjects emerge or when they do, they are emptied of substance by brussels technocrats who are subservient to the financial markets and lobbyists. i don't believe in the stimulus package that we're being told is working. the real renewal would be a radical change of policy and a return to a more modest europe based on cooperation between free and independent nation states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. the european commission risks slipping into a 'new impetus for jobs, growth and investment'. it will, alas, lead to the downfall of the peoples of europe. it is quite surprising to hear mr juncker talk about the fight against tax evasion and it might make one smile if it were not a theft to the detriment of other european states. its work programme for 2015 is nothing more than a vague list of declarations of intent. as announced in the introduction, the commission does not go into detail on the mobilisation of the famous '315 billion'. it's the fumigation. mr timmermans, the commission's first vice-president, proudly announced 'a balanced immigration agenda: citizens are calling for better management of immigration in europe while ensuring that europe remains an attractive destination for talent'. it's about time. we've been saying that for 40 years. we welcome this sudden conversion to a less lax immigration policy. but we have serious doubts about his ability to understand the case. but today our citizens no longer want to suffer from this mass immigration from outside europe which is destroying our system of civilization.
in writing. the commission's programme for 2015 is synonymous with progress and innovation. as promised by jean-claude juncker, the emphasis will be on growth, job creation and investment. the new commission has already proposed legislation to create a european fund for strategic investments. i am also in full agreement with the commission, as chairman of the committee on fisheries, when it stresses the need to establish a reformed common fisheries policy. i would, however, insist that special attention be paid to the role of fisheries in blue growth. there will be no resolution on the commission's programme for 2015. this has been the wish of the epp group since it left. we support mr juncker's programme and do not think that a resolution is necessary. i voted in favour of the epp group's resolution. the commission's programme for this year was clear and simple.
in writing. the european commission's work programme for 2015 was presented by president juncker and the college of commissioners at the december plenary session. in line with the commitments made during the european elections campaign last may, this work programme translates president juncker's political guidelines into 23 legislative proposals for jobs, growth and investment. the work programme also proposes to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses and presents a list of proposals that have been withdrawn, deemed obsolete or inadequate. i am joining this new way of working, which is more in line with what citizens expect from the european union, whose legislation they consider to be sometimes too complex. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution tabled by the group of the european people's party which supports this approach.
in writing. as a member of the european people's party (epp), i voted in favour of my political group's resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2015. unlike the other political groups, it refused to produce a resolution which would have been a catalogue of laws, and was unable to find common ground with the other groups. nevertheless, a succinct resolution, such as the epp's, was more than enough: the european commission's programme is widely known since its inauguration by the european parliament dates from october 2014. i am particularly in favour of the idea in the work programme that the european union should only intervene where it can bring real added value. it was one of our campaign promises during the european elections, and it must be kept.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the commission's work programme for 2015. since the work programme had already been adopted by the commission and had entered into force, there was no legal or political interest in parliament adopting a resolution on the subject. the proposals of the other political groups would have led to a work programme of more than 200 texts, which would have been completely contrary to the idea of better legislation and reducing the degree of bureaucracy by concentrating on the big issues. this criticism of the union's tendency to legislate permanently on everything and anything was the focus of the discussions with citizens during the european elections last may. in this respect, it is to be welcomed that jean-claude juncker has decided to respond to this concern and to give priority to quality over quantity. i therefore welcome the rejection of this resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution prepared by the epp, which was intended to support the commission's work programme as it stands. the other political groups have tried to amend this work programme by proposing their resolutions, which seemed useless to us since the european commission has already, on several occasions, enjoyed the confidence of the european parliament. finally, no resolution was adopted because of a lack of majority. in this way, we, the epp members, have in a way renewed our confidence in the european commission, which we believe has the political courage to 'reawaken europe', to revive growth and employment and to bring europe out of its atony.
in writing. the right-wing resolution before us welcomes the commission's work programme, particularly in its fight against 'the administrative burden on citizens and businesses'. the commission is therefore calling for a 25% reduction in the cost of red tape and for independent assessments to be carried out to measure the administrative burden and costs of new proposals, in order of course to eliminate red tape at all levels. it also called for the rapid conclusion of the transatlantic single market and other trade negotiations under way in order to liberalize the european market a little more. i vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of my group's legislative proposal because it emphasises the priorities which the commission must take into account, such as the development of a social dimension, strong commitments to the environment, a new tax policy and a more ambitious cohesion and solidarity policy. i also supported all the amendments which denounced the european commission's withdrawal of crucial texts such as the maternity directive, the circular economy package and the air quality directive.
in writing. we expect nothing from the commission under mr juncker, whose luxleaks case has revealed the complete lack of credibility on important issues such as taxation and unfair tax competition between eu states. as for the investment plan, its financing remains equally unclear. i therefore cannot vote for this work programme and i am against it.
in writing. i supported the epp group resolution on the commission's work programme for 2015. the epp text supports the programme proposed by the commission under jean-claude juncker, which is intended to be effective and operational, in particular by reducing any administrative or bureaucratic burden and reorienting european action towards the commission's priorities. the resolution also refers to eu trade policy and recalls in particular the objective of achieving a balanced and comprehensive eu-us transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) that respects european social, environmental and consumer protection standards. the text also mentions the multilateral level of trade negotiations and the importance of the implementation of the bali package.
in writing. we can certainly be satisfied that some s&d policy priorities have been integrated into the commission's work programme for 2015. this is particularly the case with the plan to stimulate investment in europe and the fight against tax havens. unfortunately, other priorities for the cohesion and sustainable development of the union are missing. the weakness of the social dimension of the commission's projects is particularly noteworthy, as it shows its refusal to take account of the impact of the crisis on europeans. each political group has proposed its own resolution on this work programme without succeeding in obtaining the support of a majority of parliament's members. i am glad that certain socialist amendments have won a majority of the members, which is an encouraging sign for our future struggles. those of us who strongly opposed the commission's withdrawal of environmental or social legislation, air quality or waste measures, and the maternity leave directive, got the majority.
in writing. this resolution is yet another example of the great hypocrisy of the european authorities. while all the nations represented in the european parliament denounce the attacks on press freedom and public freedoms, their leaders marched alongside the turkish prime minister at the demonstrations in support of the victims of the charlie hebdo attack in paris. the european parliament has also expressed its concern at the situation in turkey, which is facing a serious crisis. the continuation of the process of integration of this state into the eu is a very bad signal for our international partners.
in writing. in recent years, freedom of expression has been abused in turkey and we see the real face of erdoğan emerging. the government has started arresting people again and charging them with political crimes of all kinds, accusing writers, editors and journalists of breaking anti-terrorism laws, very often because of ties or sympathies with the kurdish movement. erdoğan and his akp party, which has been in power for 12 years, are increasing the pressure on journalists. in late february 2014, audio recordings even appeared on the internet. it's about a corrupt, dishonest prime minister using his power to silence the press. the solution is now simple for the european union, faced with a social and economic crisis: the negotiations for turkey's accession to the eu must be stopped immediately, as i asked with six other colleagues in my motion for a resolution last december. that is why i voted against this text, which is nothing but a declaration of good intentions.
in writing. on 14 december last in turkey, 27 people, mostly journalists, were arrested. this wave of arrests is a confirmation of the crackdown on opposition media in turkey today, with many journalists still in prison. in this resolution, the european parliament condemned these events and reaffirmed its commitment to freedom of expression, which is at the heart of the values of the european union and is illustrated by the existence of a free, independent and diverse press.
in writing. we adopted a resolution against the violations of freedom of expression in turkey, following the recent arrests of journalists and media officials. we strongly condemned the systematic pressure on the media and insisted that the country must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. recent arrests of journalists in turkey remind us of the policy of repression of freedom of expression and press practiced by the erdogan regime. while the european parliament voted last march on a complacent report on the 'democratization' of turkey, it is clear today that we are far from the truth. the resolution condemns the arrests of journalists and political and trade union activists. these are backed up by a partial justice system where anti-terrorism laws are regularly used as a pretext to flout fundamental rights. i regret that the political context in turkey, and in particular its foreign policy, is absent from this resolution. but as the turkish police threatened yesterday to ban the circulation of cumhuriyet, the opposition daily, which at the time published some pages of charlie hebdo, i am voting for it.
in writing. the european parliament proposes to condemn the recent arrest of journalists and the pressure exerted by the authorities on media disputes. the commission is also concerned about the decline in freedom of expression and information in some eu member states, particularly in france. but above all, this draft resolution is part of the negotiations on turkey's accession to the union, which are threatened by turkey's refusal to conform to the european 'moral' framework. the necessary conclusions must therefore be drawn and the accession negotiations with that country must be terminated. that is why i voted against this useless motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which condemns the arrests and detentions of journalists in turkey for their opinions, whether turkish or european. these recurrent violations of fundamental rights, coupled with regular attempts to block the internet and social networks, are all the more serious as freedom of expression is at the heart of the values of the european union, to which turkey intends to join.
in writing. this resolution focuses on the recent arrests of journalists in turkey and the crackdown on press freedom. i voted for this resolution, of course.
in writing. violations of freedom of expression in turkey must not lead to small and ineffective reprimands. recent events have shown how much this freedom is threatened and how much it must be defended. it is time to stop the negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union and to give turkey a firm, negative answer. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. i consider turkey a key partner of the european union, especially in the context of the situation in the region bordering this country. however, it is essential that the union monitors whether there are any cases in turkey which could constitute a suppression of media freedom. i therefore decided to support the motion for a resolution on the events that took place in the country on 14 december 2014.
in writing. more than ever we are learning the importance of press freedom as well as its power to provoke the ire of the most determined politicians. in this respect, i welcome this resolution by the european parliament in the face of the attacks on freedom of expression which the press may suffer. this is a fundamental value of a democratic society which must be reaffirmed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the recent restrictions on freedom of expression in turkey. the police raids and the imprisonment of several journalists last december constitute a serious attack on this fundamental freedom to which we are deeply attached, an attachment which we have perhaps lived with even more passion since the attacks in paris on 7 january. parliament is concerned about the stagnation or even the retreat of the reforms towards greater democracy initiated so far by the turkish government, and recalls that these are essential for the granting of financing for the pre-accession aid instrument. we must remain firm on the respect of the fundamental values of the european union in our bilateral relations with turkey.
in writing. turkish prime minister ahmet davotoglu dared to participate in the republican march in paris on sunday, january 11, following the attacks in france against charlie hebdo. a strange symbol when you consider that turkey holds the world record for the number of journalists in prison. the least that can be said is that freedom is variable geometry for mr. erdogan and his government. arbitrary and mass arrests of journalists continue, as was the case on 14 december last, when the chief editor of zaman newspaper, ekrem dumanlı, and the managing director of the samanyolu group, hidayet karaca, were arrested. pressures and restrictions on the press and media are increasing. as recently as january 14, the turkish authorities ordered the blocking of all web pages in turkey that reproduce the "one" of charlie hebdo, a newspaper to which mr davotoglu had supposedly paid tribute on january 11. we in the gue/ngl are continuing to denounce the attitude of the turkish authorities and we are continuing to remind them that a free and pluralistic press is an essential component of any democracy. that is what this resolution did, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. recep tayyip erdogan and his akp party have ruled turkey with an iron fist since 2003. since then, he has been steadily cutting the prerogatives of the army and all the other kemalist strongholds. in the name of democracy, the european union has consistently supported his policy, even though mr erdogan's clearly stated objective is the establishment of an islamic regime. the restoration of a neo-ottoman caliphate has also been a constant in turkish policy since 2003 and is manifested in particular by turkey's support for armed terrorist groups operating in syria. the recent attacks by the ankara government on the press are therefore just one episode in the decade-long policy of the ruling party. i voted against this resolution, which is only a declaration of intent to give myself a clear conscience, because i expect the european union to immediately stop the accession negotiations with turkey and to strongly call on turkey to stop its support for armed terrorist groups in the region.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is moving in the right direction. the text clearly condemns the restrictions on press freedom and the pressure on publishing houses and does not take a position on the accession process.
in writing. the european parliament proposes to condemn the recent arrest of journalists and the pressure exerted by the authorities on media disputes. the commission is also concerned about the decline in freedom of expression and information in some eu member states, particularly in france. but above all, this draft resolution is part of the negotiations on turkey's accession to the union, which are threatened by turkey's refusal to conform to the european 'moral' framework. the necessary conclusions must therefore be drawn and the accession negotiations with that country must be terminated. that is why i voted against this useless motion for a resolution.
in writing. the situation in turkey is intolerable. we cannot accept that journalists and media executives are arrested for doing their job. freedom of expression is a fundamental european value. we saw it with the recent attacks on charlie hebdo in paris. the whole world has come together to send a strong signal for freedom of speech. this mobilization must not remain marginal. the fight for freedom of expression and freedom of the press must be a daily struggle. with this resolution, the european parliament sends a message to turkey. we cannot tolerate a partner of the european union instigating such practices in its own country. i voted in favour of this resolution, which proves that turkey cannot join the european union.
in writing. i voted against this resolution which once again enshrines the principle of interference in the european union's relations with the rest of the world. i would like to reiterate my attachment to freedom in all its forms, and in particular to freedom of expression, which has been particularly threatened in recent weeks, as we have seen with the terrorist attacks in france. i would like to point out, however, that the european parliament's deliberate manoeuvre is not acceptable. the text draws on human rights to push turkey to reform, but with a goal that can be read in the resolution: to make turkey presentable in the perspective of its future membership of the european union. i voted against this text because i am a european, a heir to greek thought, roman law and christian spirituality, but also because europe has clear geographical, cultural and political boundaries.
in writing. in these hours of mourning and reflection following the violent attack on charlie hebdo, which resulted in the deaths of journalists, cartoonists and editorial staff, we must remember that any restriction on freedom of expression, any arrest of journalists, media officials and any pressure on the press is intolerable. the european union, by virtue of its values and its history, guarantees and protects the freedom and independence of the press. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in december, turkish police arrested ekrem dumanli, the editor-in-chief of one of the country's leading daily newspapers zaman, the president of samanyolu tv channel and 23 other people in 13 cities across the country. and arrest warrants were issued for 32 people, accused of, among other things, "forming a gang to undermine the sovereignty of the state". these arrests are contrary to the values of the european union and must be strongly condemned. the turkish government must urgently take the necessary measures to guarantee a free and pluralistic press, which is a sine qua non of the exercise of democracy. such restrictions on fundamental rights and violations of the rule of law must lead the union to react firmly, in particular by making its aid to istanbul conditional on respect for democratic principles.
in writing. recep tayyip erdogan and his akp party have ruled turkey with an iron fist since 2003. since then, he has been steadily cutting the prerogatives of the army and all the other kemalist strongholds. in the name of democracy, the european union has consistently supported his policy, even though mr erdogan's clearly stated objective is the establishment of an islamic regime. the restoration of a neo-ottoman caliphate has also been a constant in turkish policy since 2003 and is manifested in particular by turkey's support for armed terrorist groups operating in syria. the recent attacks by the ankara government on the press are therefore just one episode in the decade-long policy of the ruling party. i voted against this resolution, which is only a declaration of intent to give myself a clear conscience, because i expect the european union to immediately stop the accession negotiations with turkey and to strongly call on turkey to stop its support for armed terrorist groups in the region.
in writing. on thursday 15 january i voted in favour of a resolution on freedom of expression in turkey following the arrest of 24 journalists by the turkish police last december. in this resolution, parliament calls for an end to the pressure and intimidation of turkish media and journalists. i have been observing for some time now a backsliding in democratic reforms in turkey which is unacceptable! last wednesday i was extremely shocked by the attack that took the lives of many people at the charlie hebdo newspaper in paris. today, more than ever, we must defend our democratic values and remind ourselves that they are not negotiable!
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on freedom of expression in turkey. last december, turkish police conducted multiple arrests against journalists and dissidents. the resolution condemns this deplorable logic of pressure on the press and opponents and recalls that respect for media pluralism, freedom of the press and of expression is a prerequisite for any entry into the union. turkey's actions clearly demonstrate that the continuation of any accession negotiations is therefore pointless at this stage. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i wished to vote in favour of this resolution condemning the recent police raids and the detention of several journalists in turkey. these attacks on freedom of the press and media are particularly worrying and are a sign of a democratic backsliding. the resolution rightly stresses the need to strengthen the coherence between eu financial assistance to turkey and the real progress that turkey is making, particularly in respecting fundamental freedoms and rights.
in writing. on 14 december, turkish police arrested several journalists and media officials, including the editor of zaman newspaper. these arrests have once again cast serious doubts on the impartiality and independence of the judiciary in turkey. they only confirm that turkey does not meet the criteria for membership of the european union, particularly in respect of fundamental rights and freedom of expression, and freedom of the press in particular. the arrests of december 14 are not isolated cases. this is a systematic intolerance of political opposition and critical journalists. nowhere else in the world do you find so many journalists in prison. the accession process for turkey has been a total failure, a failure which the national front members of parliament had foreseen even before the negotiations began. for years we have been told that these negotiations could be interrupted if turkey does not meet the criteria in a blatant manner, and this possibility is not even mentioned in the joint resolution that has just been voted. the accession negotiations and preaccession aid must be brought to a definitive end.
mr president, commissioner, the events in paris, those in belgium, the attacks that are thwarted - as i said yesterday - every day, but also the jihadist networks that are dismantled every day - just yesterday - in france: we have an urgent need to act. i agree with all of monika hohlmeier's requests, but, commissioner, we had already made many proposals long before these events. however, there are measures that we can take immediately, without additional tools, and yesterday gilles de kerchove recalled and affirmed them: improving the use of the schengen information system, the exchange of information within europol, but also the introduction of more systematic checks at the external borders of the european union, as well as the acceleration - which is being debated - of the adoption of the european pnr, which will always be more effective than twenty-eight national pnrs. i agree with guy verhofstadt's statement on the need for swift action, because we are really at war with barbaric criminals and terrorists. commissioner, i listen to you, we come to your speeches, you give speeches all day long without ever setting a timetable, never. today there is an emergency, namely the security of european citizens. you are asked, "when are you going to act, when are you going to put these measures in place, which do not require additional legislative tools?"
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, three words: sincerity, lucidity and proportionality. honesty first. don't play on the fears of our fellow citizens and stop lying. no, a european pnr would not have prevented these tragedies. we need the means, not new legislation. then there's the lucidity. analyze the malfunctions before promoting new measures. proportionality, at last. as the court of justice has pointed out, a fair balance must be struck between the fight against terrorism and respect for our fundamental freedoms. only suspects and their relatives should be subject to surveillance. widespread surveillance will not prevent terrorist acts, but will instead create fragile democracies that could be tempted to drift. we don't fight terrorists with methods that are illegal. we must not become unwitting auxiliaries to the terrorist logic. they kill, let's not let them destroy the values that are ours.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all your decisions have helped to disarm us, including morally, against islamic fundamentalism, and have done so for many years. i would like to touch on a subject which i think has been totally ignored. the president of the libyan constituent assembly, ali tarhouni, expressed his deep concern to italian journalists, and i quote: 'europe has seriously underestimated the possibility of militants infiltrating lampedusa, sicily or malta. the risks are increasing at a dramatic rate". the reality is that the mere declaration of nationality, especially syrian, the mere filing of a refugee file, obliges us today, in the light of legislation, to welcome and, moreover, to provide for the needs of populations of which we know absolutely nothing, about which we have absolutely no information. we have even less intelligence because we have severed relations with syrian intelligence, which was one of the most serious sources of visibility on the fundamentalists. the italian foreign minister made the same statement and then reversed his position under the pressure of the well-meaning intellectual terrorism. we are being deceived and corrupted by reassuring words, by angelic language. the reality is that we have no way of protecting ourselves against such risks except by returning to our national borders.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days, it seems to me that the debate has made some progress on one point: the fight against terrorism involves seeking a balance between the need to ensure the security of the union and its citizens on the one hand, and to guarantee respect for fundamental freedoms and rights on the other. i believe we have also made progress in the idea that the fight against terrorism is far from being a purely technical matter within the purely security logic. radicalisation is a multifaceted, evolving and multidimensional phenomenon, developing both within the union and beyond its borders. the european response must therefore favour a transversal, global, long-term approach and involve a multiplicity of actors. among the areas of action to be developed, i would like to support the avenues already mentioned, such as improving the exchange of information between member states and with the union agencies europol, eurojust , improving the implementation of the schengen information system, combating the financing of terrorism and the illegal trade in firearms, or optimising the full potential of the internet in terms of awareness-raising while effectively combating its misuse. in this set of actions, the social and cultural dimension of the fight against terrorism must not be cosmetic or declarative, but must generate concrete actions on the ground. let us not forget that radicalisation often arises from disarray and lack of prospects. finally, do not fall into the trap that is set before us. the debate today should not be treated with emotion and haste, with the emergency services on the one hand and the homeopaths on the other. if no one is defending the status quo, we must act thoughtfully, based in particular on a precise assessment of existing european tools and their implementation.
mr president, these are not ordinary times. the threat from within and without is real and present, which is why the political will must be expressed quickly. europe must demonstrate its ability to act within the natural framework of its rule of law. it is obvious that we must improve the sharing of information, strengthen sis and europol, and implement a smart european pnr. similarly, we must decide to systematically control the air, sea and land borders of schengen to show that schengen is effective. we also need to strengthen eurojust and - why not? - have a european prosecutor. finally, in the long term, we must have a real strategy for our prisons, which are now too often, in many member states, a school for crime and terrorism. we must also pursue a responsible foreign policy, and i am thinking in particular of turkey. we must, in cooperation with the commission, rethink - why not? - a policy on temporary visas. finally, we must make progress on the defence of europe. let us do all this together, and then we will demonstrate that we are finally up to the challenge.
in writing. your declaration to fight terrorism at european level seems to be just another trick with "measures" to make a good impression after the tragic events that have hit france. perhaps the commission could also accompany its measures with a 'stop-jihadism' website like the one recently created by the french government, full of absurdity in the face of this threat? unfortunately, it almost succeeds in getting close to it, since in its declaration it mentioned the possibilities of the european union to "fight against hate speech". it is obvious that this will solve the security problems at european level... this sad fact of impotence in the face of terrorism is only the result of years of lax policies on the part of the european union and most of the governments of the member states, including my own, france, which prefer to hide their faces. only a voluntarist policy will bring about a clear solution to the situation. good intentions are not enough, we must stop the accession of new countries to the european union, especially turkey and the balkan countries, or suspend the schengen agreements immediately. finally, it is becoming urgent to establish, as is the practice in the united states, a control of passenger data files (pnr).
in writing. the paris attacks have once again proved that europe is the target of organised terrorist groups. young people from our countries go abroad, to troubled regions, where they are trained in combat by extremist movements, and then they come back to strike europe in the heart. the answer to terrorism is the unity and solidarity of europeans, not the withdrawal or individualism advocated by some. the solution lies in europe. we need to set up a european pnr. socialists must understand that our fellow citizens need to feel safe. we must rethink schengen in the light of recent events. we have an obligation to improve surveillance at the union's borders. for this we need to increase the financial resources of frontex. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. but above all we must educate our young people in european values so that from an early age they are not tempted by speeches which promote hatred and destruction.
in writing. whether it is the victims of the paris attacks, the martyred christians of the east or the beheaded hostages whether they are french, english, american or japanese, it is the whole of humanity that radical islam has declared war on. it is a long-term, extremely violent, highly organised threat which today takes on many forms, including those of young men and women, born and raised in europe, who are capable of killing other europeans. it is therefore urgent to act in a systematic and relentless manner to eradicate islamist terrorism within the union itself, but also in the world. we must, as each member state, make the fight against terrorism a priority. we need to strengthen our cooperation on intelligence, set up a european pnr, reform the schengen area to improve border controls and put in place a european plan to combat the illegal trade in firearms. we also need to fight the promotion of jihad on the internet and urgently evaluate our tools for preventing radicalisation. finally, we must engage in joint, strong and coordinated external action, including military action, to combat the islamic state and al-qaeda.
in writing. the attacks in france have triggered a genuine european citizen's uprising in defence of our common values. in the face of the terrorist activities that are affecting our continent, our response can only be european, transversal and integrated, to ensure the right to security of persons in full respect of fundamental freedoms. the fight against radicalisation, with its multiple and complex causes, will require more education, more social inclusion. we must also make progress on other key areas: improving the exchange of information between the member states, thanks to the possibilities of the schengen information system. adoption of the european pnr, which will help to improve the monitoring of european jihad candidates, by providing more guarantees for the protection of fundamental rights. the proper application of the schengen rules, through more effective controls at external borders. developing an alternative message and raising awareness of terrorist propaganda, while increasingly targeting hate speech circulating on the internet. but also the development of a real common foreign policy for europe. we must at all times remain united and in solidarity, defending both our freedoms and our security, which together make a vital contribution to the proper functioning of our democracy.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on the european fund for strategic investments (2015/2522 ((rsp)).
madam president, commissioner, madam president-in-office, we can only support the commission's proposals, of course, because we need a major stimulus to get out of this european crisis. the commission has understood the urgency of this situation and is now making a proposal for this fund. i am sure that the commissioner's proposals will make it clear that it is important for parliament to be able to play its full part in monitoring the management of this fund. we agree with the priorities expressed on this future fund, we also agree on the establishment of a governance model, a project selection process, which is transparent, and that is necessary if we want to attract investors. however, we must attract investors and do everything we can to reduce bureaucracy and make investors want to come to europe. it would be a good signal to do everything possible to maintain our technological advance, otherwise it would be extremely dangerous, because it would jeopardize european industry and our chance of growth. so in that case, what i fear is that we are touching the much-needed horizon 2020 programme, which we negotiated bitterly here in parliament a few months ago. i would like to conclude, madam president, by telling the council that the member states have a great responsibility, because we know that they are the ones who are dragging their feet in participating in this fund on their own budget.
madam president, madam minister, commissioner, first of all thank you for your presentation. i would like to say that i do not share the opinion of those who denounce mr juncker's conjuring trick, which would cost him 315 billion, but i still think that if we called a spade a spade, we would gain in clarity and credibility, because this plan is the recognition of the indispensable public investment in europe, this guarantee on the union's budget, it is the basis of a community loan that does not say its name. it is a pity, because it is this fund, based on public action, which will restore the confidence of private investors. the commission is thus taking the first step towards what we socialists and democrats have been calling for since the beginning of the crisis, namely public investment. unfortunately, what europe needs is not 300 billion over three years, but 300 billion euros of additional investment every year, and to achieve this, the member states will have to mobilise and take advantage of this new instrument through projects, of course, but above all by contributing to this fund. and to encourage them to do so, the commission has presented a new interpretation of the flexibility of the stability pact. the council, madam minister, to keep the promise, which until now has remained a dead letter, of boosting investment, growth and employment. however, there are still many governance issues related to our objectives. firstly, the viability of the projects presented by the commission as a central criterion for the selection of projects, and for most of them this is an excellent thing. however, article 5 (i) of the regulation refers to education and training projects which are eligible for this fund. how are we going to calculate that viability? how will very long-term investment projects, which are the seeds of a sustainable and socially inclusive model, be assessed? how will the employment objective be taken into account in the selection of projects? if the council and the commission are sworn to the independence of the eib in the selection of projects, how will the experts on the investment committee take account of the macroeconomic issues? i'll leave it at that, madam president. just a few things like youth employment, energy transition, etc. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i think i agree with the commission on this point. what we are doing is public investment by using the union budget as a guarantee for a community loan and, as i said, in addition, with the new interpretation of the stability pact by the commission, we are also encouraging member states to invest. that is what we were talking about and i would like to say, since i have a short time to speak, that the european union needs all the member states to benefit from these projects, from this investment fund. i ask the commission how much of the efsi's activities it is prepared to allocate to regions in difficulty.
madam president, mr vice-president, as you know, the sixth cohesion report notes a decline in the objectives of cohesion since 2008. i would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that if the billions of investment planned are mainly directed to the wealthier regions, then all the effects of cohesion policy are likely to be even more erased and the disparities between the regions even more widened. we must therefore ensure that all categories of regions benefit from this plan. i do not wish to make this request, but i think it is an obligation on the european commission. the commission will also have to ensure that this plan does not end up financing only what the markets and industries are already able to finance and, as you said, we need risk, a bold shock, we actually need a new deal for europe. i am thinking, for example, of investments in the maritime economy, in the cultural industry and, above all, in those distressed neighbourhoods where you have young people full of talent who have a lot of projects, especially in the digital sector, that are waiting to emerge and that need to be supported. i would like to conclude with a point on governance, and it is quite clear that parliament will have to be involved, because these are political choices.
in writing. not content with having announced the launch of a grand plan for strategic european investment and mitigating the effects of the luxleaks scandal, jean-claude juncker has just admitted his inability to raise the funds needed to implement his magical plan to boost investment and growth. as we predicted, the commission is giving strong incentives to member states to have plenty of fresh money by proposing that they exclude their possible contribution to the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) from the calculation of their deficit under the stability pact. far from loosening the budgetary grip on member states, the commission's strategy will have the effect of giving the juncker plan a competitive edge over the european structural funds and state/regional project contracts. the risk is that money from the member states, which is supposed to finance national public policies, will be diverted to the efsi in the interests of budgetary adjustment. in this case, the european commission is using the carrot and the stick to force states to transfer public funds at european level. this is a sign of the extreme political tension in the european institutions.
in writing. i want to give my full support to the investment plan proposed by the european commission. the plan will eventually mobilise eur 315 billion to finance strategic growth projects in the fields of transport, digital, energy, innovation, research and education. it will also support the investment and development of european smes and mid-caps. this is an unprecedented opportunity to create jobs and to adapt our economies to the challenges of the 21st century. as such, i believe that one sector needs special attention: the agri-food sector. as the world's demand for food continues to increase, our european industries must strengthen their presence in a globalised and highly competitive market. the plan should be an opportunity to support innovation and trade in this sector, to the benefit of all operators along the entire agri-food chain, from production to distribution.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the future of humanity is at stake in paris. is europe acting on the climate? yes, europe is acting. is europe doing enough? no, europe is not doing enough. she doesn't do enough for herself first. contrary to what some people say about the competitiveness of the european economy, we must nevertheless begin to look at the reality of the european economy. the sectors that are doing well are those that anticipate climate change, those that are part of the energy transition, efficiency and renewable energy. these are also the sectors which are creating jobs today. i would ask you to read the commission paper on job-creating growth again: the first sector which will create jobs in europe is the energy transition sector. but we also have to do this for the climate negotiations. europe is not doing enough either. if we clear part of the ets, europe could set a target of 25% reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 by the end of spring. it is absolutely essential that the contributions of the european union exclude all matters relating to land use and land use change, otherwise we will lose all credibility. and because we know that today, the main obstacle to international negotiation is funding, we have to be more serious about this. it is not because europe is doing it that europe is doing enough. we must act for ourselves and for humanity.
mr president, commissioner, madam president, whatever the outcome of the paris conference, in a certain way it must serve as a springboard both for the implementation of the energy union and for the orientation of this investment plan for our ecological transition. and there is one link that we are still missing, and that is the question of carbon pricing, in order to be sure to orientate towards long-term investment in the ecological transition, investment in good market conditions, as many here want. we have a certain responsibility beyond our business, not only because we are polluters, not only because this conference is taking place on our continent, but also because we have to put our house in order. many before me in this debate have mentioned it, but why can we not agree to anticipate this reserve of stability, which we all agree is a determining element of the credibility of our european union. so, commissioner, roll up your sleeves and get that stability reserve advance. there is also the question of funding solidarity. the european union must also be involved in this. we have commitments to finance the green fund and i welcome the initiative which has just been taken in france by the minister of finance and the president of the republic with his austrian counterpart to relaunch taxation of financial transactions which would in particular make it possible to finance this green fund, and i hope that all the member states which are party to this enhanced cooperation... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i am speaking on behalf of my colleague mr melo, who has not yet arrived. i therefore ask, on behalf of the commission, that a debate on energy interconnections be added to the agenda of our plenary session. in the context of the completion of the internal energy market, the development of an interconnected european network seems to me to be absolutely essential, not only for the countries of the iberian peninsula, but also for the baltic states. it would be good to alert the european commission to the need to take urgent action in this regard.
mr president, the internet is now a formidable tool for economic, cultural, political and ideological promotion. this gigantic zone of free speech is perhaps the only real democratic achievement of the last 15 years. indeed, in the face of the oligarchic and technocratic turn that characterizes our era, the internet allows the expression of the multiple currents of real society. it is a rather interesting paradox that the most dematerialized, distance-defying technology is the platform for new and entrenched views opposed to liberal globalization. of course, there are the unacceptable, like promoting terrorism. but let us beware of false solutions, because the closure of jihadist sites makes it even more difficult to detect terrorist activities and is easily circumvented by structured channels, while a permanent state of emergency is established to the detriment of all. the fight against internet drift should not be used as a pretext to limit the democratic freedoms of the majority. avoiding plane accidents must not lead to the abolition of aviation.
mr president, the internet is indeed a real space of freedom which must be preserved. however, after the revelations about the existence of large-scale internet surveillance programmes by us intelligence agencies and the risks they pose to internal security and political independence, particularly in the states of the european union, the peoples of europe expect a strong and unambiguous reaction from you. they will not be satisfied with a lukewarm renewal of the mandate to negotiate on internet governance. you tell us that this global governance of the internet is supposed to guarantee fundamental freedoms and human rights, be more transparent and organize the resources and functions of the internet for everyone, anywhere and anytime. you say you want to challenge the american way of governing, but what are your own goals? what's bothering you? that european nations are spied on like this? that europeans no longer have privacy? or is it, in fact, the united states doing it, and alone? we remain very suspicious of your motives and very doubtful of your willingness to confront the imperial interests of the united states. and nothing in the resolutions tabled by the political groups gives us any reassurance: forums, exchanges, negotiations... nothing that would make the american giants squirm. so yes, we will have to redouble our efforts to ensure that the european union is present in the global debate.
mr president, the internet must be a space of freedom, respecting the right to information and freedom of expression, but it must also respect the right to be forgotten, which is a fundamental aspect of the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. the right to be forgotten was enshrined on 13 may 2014 by a judgment of the court of justice of the european union. it allows anyone who has been harmed by information published on the internet to oblige the operator of the search engine concerned to withdraw it when a reasonable period of exposure, of the order of several years, has been exceeded. this is an important judgment, but it is not enough. google is trying to resist this: on february 6, 2015, it published a report that calls into question the right to be forgotten. this is why the internet governance forum must take over from the court. three points in particular need to be clarified urgently. first, the period of time after which information may be subject to the right to be forgotten; secondly, the balance to be struck between this right to be forgotten and the public's right to information. and thirdly, the possibility of giving the right to be forgotten a non-european dimension, which is particularly necessary in the face of the american version of google.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to remind you that we are voting on wednesday on a request to the commission to adopt a legislative proposal on the indication of the country of origin for meat used in processed foods, and not on a legislative text. then comes the time of the "how" and the "when". to say no today is to end all debate on the subject. some argue that the increased costs and administrative burdens justify their rejection of the resolution. but farmers, like processors, already have an obligation to trace. they must keep a record of all the products they use. so i find it very difficult to believe that demanding more transparency in this area would lead to such a big complication. nevertheless, this is an essential point for future negotiation of a legislative proposal. we must strike the right balance between the interests of consumers and the competitiveness of our businesses. it is also worth remembering that this is a consumer demand for more information and more transparency. we must of course take account of the possible increase in costs and administrative burdens, but also reconcile consumers with their food, after the various crises we have experienced. i therefore think it is right to continue to reflect on this matter, since the analyses are contradictory and our request, in this resolution, is to continue to reflect. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i am not convinced by the figures announced by the commission. the french delegation has some information on production and i would like the commission to continue its investigations because i do not believe at all in this 50% increase. i think the figures are much lower and instead of talking about percentages, we should be talking about absolute amounts.
mr president, i believe that it is essential today for the consumer to be able to eat safely. the traceability of meat should be complemented by other information such as the place of rearing, for example, the method of feeding, as well as the method of slaughter. your economic system is based on three groups: first, the producers, who want to make a decent living from their work by making quality products, then the consumers, who want to eat healthy food, and in between the two, the large intermediate groups, whose only aim is profitability. unfortunately, the european union has relied on the latter for thirty years, imposing on us the principle of the polluter who ruins. they pollute by transporting food thousands of kilometres between production and consumption, they ruin french producers by unfair competition and, on top of that, they deceive consumers about products. it is time for the european commission to put an end to this system, for the benefit of all. i also believe that labelling will strengthen the position of national and local supply chains. moreover, our compatriots want the processing industries to be relocated as close as possible to the production sites, which will reduce costs, a guarantee of support for national food chains, and thus of food security and food sovereignty.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution on origin labelling for processed products which has been tabled is welcome, and i support it. while the labelling of the origin of all meat is soon to become a reality in europe, the european parliament has continued its call for the introduction of country of origin labelling for processed meat products. as you know, this requirement corresponds to a very high consumer expectation, since 90% of them ask for it. our assembly had been reminded of the need for this in the wake of the horse meat scandal in my area of france. it is certain that labelling the origin of processed food products, by improving traceability, will increase transparency and hence consumer confidence, and thus improve economic value and employment in many territories. we are therefore now looking forward to the commission's legislative proposals, which will have to take account of the impact on the costs of business and the administrative burden.
in writing. the mandatory indication of the country of origin of meat used in processed foods is essential for consumer protection and the fight against food fraud. we must learn the lessons of the horse meat scandal. the european union must impose strict meat labelling to improve the traceability of processed food. we see that consumers are increasingly concerned about knowing exactly what is in and where the food they are eating comes from. it is our duty as legislators to respond to this perfectly legitimate request.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on the environment adopted on 21 january a motion for a resolution on the country of origin labelling of meat used in processed foods. we will be called upon to vote again this week on this resolution, in which we call on the european commission to exercise greater vigilance on the labelling of processed food. the resolution calls on the european commission to submit a new legislative proposal to the european parliament to do so. the current regulation provides for mandatory labelling of meat, but the provisions on processed dishes are not yet implemented. this is not satisfactory and new impetus is needed. although i question the ability of the member states to ensure effective controls throughout the production chain, which requires considerable financial and human resources, i wish to support this approach to clarifying the legislative framework and therefore intend to vote in favour of this resolution as it stands.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my concern at the attacks launched by the spanish judiciary against more than 300 unionists for striking. some are even prosecuted and sentenced to prison terms. what is problematic in this case is the extremely restrictive interpretation of labour law, and this is even more true in times of economic crisis. we can see that under pressure from some of the employers, the right to strike is being undermined, and not just in spain. there is a growing trend in europe to restrict or even ban the right of workers to protest and express themselves. social democracy is being undermined once again. could this be a thinly veiled deal by the states to attract investors? would workers' rights be a danger to the single market? however, the european charter of fundamental rights, in articles 12 and 28, refers to the right to strike and to collective action. the european parliament and the european union must therefore strongly reaffirm these fundamental rights so that they are respected by all member states. i call on all members to support the initiative of the international trade union confederation to make 18 february 2015 an international day of mobilisation in defence of the right of workers to strike. the european parliament could, for example, draw up a declaration to this effect.
madam president, we are at the heart of the matter. we can see this today, under pressure, in particular, from some of the employers. encouraged by the economic crisis - which creates an imbalance in its favour in the balance of forces, since labour is very abundant while capital, of course, is scarcer - and exploiting this disproportion, it puts pressure on political bodies and states, which will restrict the right to strike, as we see, for example, in spain and elsewhere. this means that, symmetrically, political intervention is necessary in the other direction, to support, of course, the demands of the employees' organizations within the ilo - this is certain, especially in relation to the court of justice - and also in relation to the european states, which are now acting against these conventions. in this respect, the european commission has an absolutely major role to play, and we encourage it to do so.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, the proposal you are presenting to increase the pre-financing of the youth guarantee and to provide an additional credit of eur 1 billion is a positive gesture, and we will support it. however, i would remind you again that the international labour organization (ilo) estimates that 21 billion a year is needed to finance a new project for training and stable employment for young people. on the other hand - let us be clear - the additional sums allocated are appropriations withdrawn from other social policies. we are not in a position to accept the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter. if the european union wanted to give hope a new lease of life, it would decide to make early childhood and youth a major european cause by abandoning austerity measures, encouraging the transformation of all precarious jobs into stable jobs, initiating a project to grant autonomy to young people, thus giving them the means to empower themselves, and carrying out a bold project of occupational social security in employment and training. there is always one missing leader in our speeches, namely, the companies. let us ask ourselves the question of corporate social responsibility, which makes profits and not only does not hire, but also fires. access to work must be a fundamental right. we should make it available throughout the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i see that the european commission is finally concerned about the social disaster that is threatening the nations of europe! more than 23% of young people under 25 in france are currently unemployed. this social drama is the direct consequence of political choices which have had the effect of curbing the economic activity of many member states: a strong euro, ultra-liberalism, the absence of community or even national preferences, the absence of protection for vital economic sectors, the pursuit of a crazy policy of total opening of borders. these many factors have had a very negative impact on employment. so, as a good fireman, the commission is today proposing to release €1 billion under the youth employment initiative. but this financial windfall will be just another blow to the head. it is not enough to help young people to find their first job or to train, but first the conditions must be re-established for a lasting economic recovery, creating lasting jobs. the strengthening of the eures network, which aims to support the one-way mobility of european workers, must also be halted. this european employment platform must not be a facilitator for the hiring of low-cost posted workers, who come to compete directly and in a totally unfair way with the employees of member states such as france. finally, the absolute principle of free movement of persons within the european internal market must be abolished. the real fight against unemployment is at this price. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i think the opposite is true. i think that a national or even a community preference must be restored. we will never be able to compete if we have countries like romania and france in the same european area. it's going to hurt france, and i'm here to defend my country. i'm sorry for you, but it's in the best interest of my country.
madam president, madam commissioner, my first words are to thank you. after what we have just heard, i think we should thank you for having identified the real problem here with the youth employment initiative, namely the problem of co-financing by the member states. you have perfectly understood that it is in the states where the budget is the most difficult to balance that we need the most to help young people to enter the world of work. these are greece and spain, regions in great difficulty, for which the youth employment initiative was set up. it is thanks to this voluntary work that you have highlighted the problem and have taken the initiative to respond effectively. the integration of young people into employment is urgently needed. it is a very big problem and there is a lot of confusion on the ground, as well as in the debates here. there is a great deal of confusion between the youth guarantee, which is the policy of integrating young people into the world of work throughout europe and for all young europeans, and the youth employment initiative, which is the strengthening of the youth guarantee. i hear a lot about the 21 billion, the 6 billion, the 3 billion, etc. the youth employment initiative, which is aimed at those who are most in need, must be targeted in the most deprived areas, and you are doing that perfectly. mobility is essential, because the european area is the place where young people live and work. no sector of the economy will be spared by this european opening up. in their work, in their lives, young people need mobility. it is our first instrument in the fight against unemployment. commissioner, you asked us to help you. you can count on us, we will help you to strengthen the pre-financing of youth employment. but you too should help to clear the confusion in the minds of ministers and heads of state and government: the youth guarantee is for everyone, while the youth employment initiative is a supplement for those who need it most. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for raising the issue of mobility. mobility, for me, is the first lever, the first weapon that we can give not only to young people, but also to all workers. the more we have mobility, the less unemployment there will be and the more we will reduce it, because it is the adaptation of workers to changes in society. geographical mobility is also a mobility of the mind, a professional mobility. i am therefore very angry with those who promote the withdrawal, which is useless. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i'm sorry, i was not wearing my helmet. i'm having a little bit of a connection problem, and i didn't hear the question. (the president asked for the question to be repeated)
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, you are quite right, mr president. we need projects, and i think they should be carried out as close to the territory as possible. i therefore believe that in a coordinated national organisation, projects are local and territorial projects. the funds would be useless if they were not accompanied by projects and i think that it is by starting from the ground that we can make these funds more effective because i care about them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this time the member states will not be able to say that they did not know, that europe is far from reality or that the european commission is trying to put the cart before the horse. the european commission has just said, by facilitating, among other things, funding to stimulate youth employment, that we have no time to wait. that is the message that has been sent to us. it is true that it is unfortunate that it has taken the shock of the crisis and austerity policies for the member states to finally face the reality that if we do not prepare the world for future generations, our very existence will be threatened. how many times have i said in this house that there are 7 million young people under 25 without a job, a traineeship or any training? they are now called neets, as if they were a new category of population. no, it is simply a reflection of the failure of our economic and social policies, and as far as the member states are concerned, i say 'watch out'. the youth employment initiative - and in particular the youth guarantee, which guarantees employment, training, quality work experience and apprenticeship for all young people under 25 within four months of losing their jobs or leaving school - is a formidable tool and, with the famous €1 billion proposal, the commission must force member states to act. but making money available is just the first step. the second is its intelligent and effective use. the ball is now in the court of the member states once again. you have to say to them, "you have the funding, you have the device. now invest and show our young people that it is possible to live a life of dignity. finally, make the ecological revolution, the energy revolution, to create new, sustainable jobs, in which everyone can flourish, build their lives, start a family and look to the future with greater confidence". your announcement will be a success if there is also a vision of the future, an economic horizon, because we need more than just national structures and administrations capable of absorbing these funds. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, mr deputy, ladies and gentlemen, how can we fail to react strongly to the catastrophe of a whole generation, which is almost my age and which today calls itself and defines itself as lost: a lost generation, a precarious generation, a generation on the margins of society? you're talking about devices, let's talk about them! you speak of apprenticeship, what are the member states waiting for to put the package in? we must not learn in sectors which are now - unfortunately - closed, we must think about the future, that is to say, sustainable jobs which cannot be relocated, but which are truly in step with the planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the policies put in place by the european union to promote and develop employment for young people are a symbol of failure. with an unemployment rate of 21.7% for all member states, 7.5 million young people aged 15 to 25 are currently unemployed and untrained. in spain and greece, the youth unemployment rate is even above 50%. the measures of the youth initiative will obviously not solve anything because, out of ideological blindness, the european union refuses to tackle the fundamental problems of mass immigration, which is overwhelming europe, and the continuing lowering of the union's customs barriers. your globalist and ultra-liberal ideology will make the very idea of a frontier obsolete, and the young people of europe are the first victims of this. your directive on posted workers, which was approved by the elected representatives of both the left and the right here, has created a real social dumping, to say the least of the costs entailing the social minimum. you have established legal but totally unfair competition in our national labour markets. only the re-establishment of frontiers, whether in the field of the movement of persons or the movement of goods and services, will enable the member states to carry out effective policies in favour of youth employment.
mr president, the unemployment of young people in europe is a scandal. while the scale of the problem varies from country to country, it remains unsustainable on a global scale. the economic crisis has certainly increased this, but where it is most acute, it is due to the inadequacy of labour law, as well as the inefficiency of the education systems. the countries where young people are most easily integrated into the world of work are those which have favoured apprenticeship in the workplace. in addition to mastering a trade, the practice of a language other than their own optimises the young people's assets for entering the working life. unfortunately, too many young people are still excluded from mobility within the european union, as if this adventure were forbidden to them. let's lift the barriers and support the movement financially. i would like to see a system for apprentices to recognise contracts for alternance training outside their country of origin. the aim is, of course, to encourage them to move beyond the national framework and to open up to globalisation and its challenges. ladies and gentlemen, let us put an end to the gap between higher education and apprenticeship in the right of young people to mobility in europe. finally, let us lay the foundation stone for what could become a european labour law by introducing an apprenticeship contract throughout the union.
in writing. the european commission suddenly seems to be discovering the extent of the social damage caused by youth unemployment in europe. we are being asked to add €1 billion to this to finance measures which will undoubtedly have a more than limited effectiveness. and for good reason, since we don't get to the bottom of the problem... 7 million young europeans are unemployed or untrained, even though access to work is supposedly a fundamental right. 23% of under-25s are unemployed in france, 55% in spain... this social scourge has, of course, many causes, but all of them point back to the european union, to brussels. the euro, ultra-liberalism, massive and uncontrolled immigration, free movement, the total absence of a community priority, let alone a national one, and posted workers - these are the economic, monetary and financial dogmas that have curbed economic activity and plummeted the labour market in europe, and in france in particular. once again, therefore, the union is acting like a pyromaniac firefighter trying to put out the fire it has itself started with a half-empty sewing die... the states must recover their national sovereignty as soon as possible, the future of their youth is at stake!
in writing. i welcome the european commission's proposal to speed up the release of the €3.2 billion youth employment initiative in regions where more than one in four young people are unemployed. commissioner, you can count on my support in the committee on employment and social affairs to get this amendment passed as quickly as possible, because there is urgency. if the current pre-financing rates are not increased, only 20 000 young people will be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the initiative this year, while more than five million in europe are currently without a job or a career prospect. in addition to this aid, which makes it possible to offer a young unemployed person a job, a traineeship or training within four months, we also need a real policy in favour of enterprises, entrepreneurship and growth. the young people of my region, alsace, who unfortunately will not benefit from the initiative, must be able to count on europe to support their ambitions. thank you.
mr president, it is obviously very desirable to encourage by all means the financial participation of employees in their undertakings, whether on an individual or collective basis. limiting absenteeism, encouraging the personal and collective involvement of professional teams or the transmission of enterprise are signs of good health of a company, especially of a sme. you want to reduce the obstacles to transnational employee participation schemes and, according to you, help companies to form by means of a virtual communication centre, a code of good conduct, an online calculator of effective tax rates, etc. of course, there is a real framework directive in the offing - you cannot hide it - and eventually a more binding legislative proposal. because, as always, in a totally schizophrenic strategy, under the guise of a good idea, you are putting in place mechanisms aimed at more europe. today it is the reform of european company law and internal corporate governance, the very companies you bring to your knees by too many regulations, too many dictates or too much competition. these firms, which are increasingly bankrupt or vegetate with structures that are both too large and too small to be effective, are becoming weaker and weaker. salary savings can be a real opportunity, but only in the context of national prosperity, free from any monetary and economic constraints imposed by brussels. we therefore refuse to allow this project to crush wage savings in the blatant failure of 50 years of european employment policy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, like a sea serpent, this directive is back in plenary. when it comes to persecuting motorists, the powerful who rule us have the next best thing in mind. if this text is to be believed, the only way to combat road violence is to crack down on drivers. why, for example, is there no provision for consulting motorists' associations in the same way as other associations? as regards road maintenance and upgrading, we could say a lot about that, but of course, now is not the time to talk about it. it's expensive, but radar is very profitable. there is nothing about fighting criminals who use vehicles, often stolen, to commit their crimes. do you think the chechen drivers who killed a nice woman on the promenade des anglais last month, driving two stolen cars, care about keeping their points on their driver's license? they had no license or id. do you think that this directive will help to combat the increasingly widespread practice of 'go fast' in the field of drug trafficking, including crossborder trafficking? of course not. what we are asking for is a little flexibility for ordinary motorists, but zero tolerance for road criminals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his work in this area.
madam president, i would ask you to give your report back to us. i cannot resist quoting this maxim of the famous french poet nicolas boileau. boileau: a whole programme when we talk about the repression of traffic offences, since this name could be translated into english as "drink water", into german as "trinken sie wasser", into spanish as "bebe agua", and so on. in reality, it is the european court of justice that is putting you back on the job with this directive: it was adopted on a wrong legal basis. however, the same motives remain. if it is a question of actually prosecuting the most serious offences, of course we can only agree, but i note that, for example, failure to fasten one's seatbelt has been included among these offences. this is certainly a risk to the safety of the careless driver, but it does not endanger the lives of others. there are many other serious offences which are not covered by this directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in luxembourg, a signatory country to the prüm treaty, the directive has just been transposed into luxembourg law, but we know that white collar criminals can rest assured, even if the amount of their fraud is much higher than the fines that we will try to recover from careless drivers. in a word, a hundred percent, if it's about controlling serious crime, yes. if it is a question of running the machine that punches motorists, we will not agree.
in writing. like a sea serpent, this directive is back in plenary. when it comes to prosecuting motorists, our governments have a long way to go. according to this text, the only way to combat road violence is to crack down on drivers. why is there no provision for consultation of motorists' associations in the same way as other associations? maintenance and repair of the road network? it's never the right time to talk about it. of course, it costs a lot of money, but radar is a great source of income. fighting the criminals who use vehicles, often stolen, to commit their crimes? it doesn't exist! do you think the chechen drivers who killed a woman in nice on the promenade des anglais last month driving two stolen cars care about keeping their points on their driver's license? they had no license, no id... do you think that this directive will help to combat the increasingly widespread practice of go fast in the field of drug trafficking, including crossborder trafficking? of course not. i'm not going to. we, the members of the national front, are asking for a little flexibility for ordinary motorists but zero tolerance for criminals.
in writing. the new directive strengthens cooperation between member states, with a stricter enforcement obligation for recalcitrant countries such as the united kingdom, ireland and denmark. the new version also takes account of the issue of the protection of personal data. this text is clearly a step forward and marks a return to the issue of road safety at european level, after it has been put aside since last spring! it is worth noting that 73 europeans die every day on european roads and 250,000 are seriously injured every year. in france, the number of road deaths increased in 2014, the first time in 12 years. europe has a key role to play in addressing this scourge. cooperation on sanctions against all drivers who commit offences with impunity in europe is a first step. this demonstrates a desire to apply sanctions consistently. we regret that the commission does not go further by proposing harmonisation of legislation, particularly in the field of speed limits and alcohol consumption, which remain the main causes of road accidents.
mr president, i would like to speak about mining. mrs. mogherini, you know, there's blood in that phone, there's rare minerals, some of which may be from the democratic republic of congo. and that poses a problem for us, because this trade enriches the armed groups and creates money to finance their abuses. at the european level, we have a responsibility. we have a voluntary european regulation on the origin of minerals, whether tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold. first of all, it must be extended to other resources, such as oil, uranium, etc., and above all, it must become binding. how is it that in the united states the dodd-frank act is binding, whereas in europe it is voluntary? secondly, it is not enough to limit this attempt at certification to importers, it must be done throughout the chain, and in particular at the final enterprise. we should ask her if she has an ethical charter for cell phones. because i find it scandalous... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, it is outrageous that a people - in particular the palestinian people in gaza - should suffer a fivefold punishment: a blockade, an occupation, the confinement of part of its population in refugee camps, the deadly and warlike attacks of the israeli army - which has destroyed homes and infrastructure, killed or injured thousands of people - and now the international structure, the hand that helps them in a way, unrwa, is financially dry. we must not let this go, but find ways of quickly filling the gaps in unrwa. those who have committed themselves must pay their share. how can we have so much money for arms and war, and not enough for humanitarian aid, for the lives of innocent children? on the other hand, we have a responsibility to create the conditions for the protection of the palestinian people and to ensure that they have their own land and state.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have had to modify my speech and, as it will be read in part, i have made some changes, because i have been asking myself questions. do you want the third world war with your speeches, go to war, with a partisan, sectarian, double-minded, double-measures, propaganda vision, or do you want to face things, the truth, reality on both sides, avoiding exacerbating conflicts? the people who elected you will throw you out if you succeed in this third world war! what we must do - and we must also say this - is to support the initiative of france and germany. we must hope that the negotiations will lead to a cessation of hostilities. we must take advantage of these negotiations to lay the foundations for genuine peace and reconciliation in ukraine and contribute to this by recovering a sense of reason in our own parliament. let us be serious, as are the heads of state who are responsible, and as are the nuclear powers in particular, because it is too easy for a small country to behave like a rocket. we must understand that our institutions must work for peace and reconciliation with russia, not for hatred and war. our parliament must recover if it is to retain a minimum of credibility, but also dignity and responsibility. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have already had the opportunity to say this: back in 1995, when i met mr koutchma, the united states had plans to cut ukraine in two. they admitted that they spent 5 billion dollars on this. they also acknowledge that the sanctions were imposed on european states which did not want them. take the example of mr. gorbachev, the nobel peace prize winner. now he supports putin. not in his domestic policy he doesn't say it's an example of democracy , but he understands russia's position. let us try to understand this position, so that we are not partial and biased.
mr president, madam high representative, i am speaking mainly to you because you seem to me to be inhabited by a spirit of peace, unlike a number of my parliamentary colleagues here. the world is dangerously moving toward a full-scale war. in the east of ukraine, it is not 5,000 civilian deaths that should be mourned, but perhaps 50,000, according to german intelligence services quoted by the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung. civilians in eastern ukraine are trying to protect themselves from the army of their own country, which is slaughtering them, bombing them, destroying their homes, schools, hospitals with missiles. and all the while, in the quiet comfort of this parliament, a party of war rages. the party of war - whose warmongering and caricaturing we have been enduring for months - is the party of irresponsibility, that of mrs harms, mr preda, mr saryusz-wolski and mr van baalen. i say this in front of you, in front of the parliamentary representation, you will bear a heavy responsibility, both in the deaths of eastern ukrainian civilians, but also if a war, if a major conflict breaks out. a heavy responsibility in history...
mr president, for several years now, some western media have been trying to spread crude propaganda against russia, based in particular on false rumours about the health of its president. last october, the new york post claimed, once again, that vladimir putin was suffering from terminal cancer. in recent days, the fake news media have unearthed a report from years ago by an obscure pentagon official: "the russian president is finally suffering from the syndrome of the 'skyfall' syndrome". i wonder about the mental health and ethics of our professional disinformation workers who, war after war, continue to echo the worst american propaganda. do these fabricators hope to lend a semblance of credibility to the statements of the former nato secretary-general, mr rasmussen, who has just said that mr putin is preparing to attack a baltic state? while some indulge in this mass hysteria, blood continues to flow in ukraine. we were told by the german press on sunday that this fratricidal war has already claimed more than 50 000 lives, ten times the number officially put forward by kiev. as for the refugees, they continue to flock in droves to the alleged aggressor. so you'd say they've gone mad, too?
mr president, this is not a question, i wanted to emphasize the positive view of my group, and i hope that its analysis will win over the socialists. that is at least an objective and positive analysis.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i am pleased that we are discussing today the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. this assembly is a unique forum for discussion between southern parliamentarians and meps. it is therefore important to value his work. in the report of our colleague, charles goerens, we take stock of the activities of this assembly in 2012 and 2013. several reports were adopted on subjects of common interest such as the rule of law, political stability, economic partnership agreements and health issues. in addition to political resolutions, the acp-eu jpa also strengthened its presence on the ground. information missions were sent to mali, liberia and haiti to better understand the local issues, and two joint election observation missions were sent to mali and madagascar. these missions help to improve our understanding of the situation in the acp countries. i am convinced that they must be supported and continued in the years to come. i am glad to see that this parliament is becoming more and more present. i hope that in the future the acp-eu jpa will be able to take a position on major issues such as the future of relations between the union and the acp countries after 2020 or the international discussions on the framework for development after 2015. i would ask all colleagues to support this report.
the european union must be able to exert a decisive influence in this world full of difficulties and conflicts of all kinds by spreading its founding values. we must be aware of this, and this is the whole point of the acp-eu partnership. the work carried out in the framework of the joint parliamentary assembly is an opportunity to strengthen the dialogue between the european union and the acp countries. the report before you demonstrates by the activities carried out and the proposals made all the benefits that can be derived from such a partnership. the apa cannot therefore be judged by its limited powers, but should be seen as a forum for dialogue and reflection that makes a decisive contribution to the definition and achievement of the global sustainable development goals. i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr charles goerens, on the excellent work he has done. the committee's examination of the text has enriched it and has now produced a balanced text. i therefore call on my colleagues, like the members of the socialist group, to support him. in conclusion, i would like to invite all members of this house to attend pap sessions so that they can see the added value of such an institution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 february 2015, at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on zero tolerance for female genital mutilation by iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000003/2015 b8-0104/2015) (2014/2988(rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, on this international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation, the epp group is fully committed to the fight to eradicate this horrific practice. this absolute scandal has to stop. every year, around the world, nearly 3 million women, young girls, even very young girls, are subjected to this real torture, this female genital mutilation, perpetrated in the name of so-called social traditions, in the name of so-called religious or cultural reasons. and we know that within the union itself, some 500 000 women and children are also subjected to these absolutely unacceptable and intolerable practices. in the epp group, we had welcomed - and still welcome - the european commission's commitment and its action plan, presented in november 2013, but we regretted that this action plan, which was stated and supposed to be very ambitious, was not accompanied by a very precise timetable, which would have allowed us to judge the achievements already made, and did not include concrete, precise, effective measures to really strengthen the fight against female genital mutilation by all. we take note, commissioner, of the very specific statements, commitments and list of future actions which you have set out before us. they are moving in the right direction, they are meeting the objective that this oral question was trying to achieve, which was to enable us to go further and to be able now to have a real road map, a road map, marked by firm and precise commitments. we will not wait a year to come back to this subject; we will make sure that these specific commitments are respected.
madam president, how can we not approve of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation, these barbaric practices which are contrary to our cultures and our european civilization? these atrocities are said to affect 175 million women and girls worldwide, but particularly 500,000 in europe, which is scandalous. the european union has encouraged mass immigration without demanding respect for the law and assimilation, and has advocated the implantation of different cultures and traditions within our own countries. now you talk about guaranteeing protection for victims through asylum procedures. but the consequence of such a measure will be to encourage these atrocious practices in the countries of origin by creating a new route for immigration. in contrast to this asylum policy, member states must punish such mutilations. the member states have a repressive arsenal in this area and this is their exclusive competence. european action would therefore not add any value in this respect.
madam president, i see that there are not enough men among us who have spoken this evening about the grave scourge of female genital mutilation. it's serious and it's a shame. let us break down some of the preconceived ideas: this subject must also concern men, when we attack a whole section of humanity. let's stick to the words "female genital mutilation". what's this about? it means that women are mutilated, injured, sometimes killed. it's a continuous torture. such mutilations reflect a deep-rooted inequality between men and women. as you said, this problem is not just an african problem, it is also a european problem. what do you need to do? it is now necessary to raise awareness and, above all, to encourage a change of mentality, to encourage the ratification of the istanbul convention. we must also think about an asylum system that takes account of this serious problem and the lack of convictions in some countries. these women are not victims, they are fighters, as dr. mukwege said. we must fight the battle with them.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. it is clearly inconceivable that in our current society such a debate on female genital mutilation can take place, since this barbaric practice should not even exist. the figures are staggering: 175 million women and girls worldwide are victims of such atrocities, and even worse, 500,000 in europe alone. beyond the fine speeches and political incantations, it is clear that this problem deserves zero tolerance. unfortunately, successive policies of the union and the governments of the member states have failed to stop this practice, as they refuse to face reality. the mass immigration that brussels wants, without any legal compliance or assimilation being required, encourages the continuation of these practices on our soil because of different traditions, cultures or religions... the sad fact is that half a million women in europe are subjected to female genital mutilation and the member states must immediately sanction these acts, since they alone are competent in this matter. finally, only a genuine policy of assimilation (and not integration) will enable all citizens to live in accordance with the fundamental values of our civilization.
the agenda calls for the joint discussion on international child abduction and eight reports by heidi hautala, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the acceptance by the european union of the declaration of accession of gabon to the 1980 hague convention on the international civil aspects of child abduction (com (2011) 0904 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final)) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final)) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final) (com (2011) 0459 final)
madam president, the 1980 hague convention is a good treaty because it has the merit of combating international child abduction. that is why all the member states of the european union have ratified it. the accession of eight more countries, including morocco and russia, is therefore welcome news. but i believe that accepting their accession is the exclusive competence of the member states, not the union, as the court of justice of the european union has wrongly and scandalously stated. the hague convention itself reserves this decision to the states. the draft resolution under discussion today is therefore nothing but a pitiful attempt to make it appear that the union is competent to steer accession, whereas public international law reserves this prerogative to its member states. the union must learn to respect the law.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 february 2015 at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president, all the europeanists, including the president of the european commission, have tried to influence the greek elections by openly supporting the right-wing candidate, antonis samaras. by putting syriza in power, the greek people have made it clear that they no longer want the violent austerity policies imposed by the european institutions. he said no to the dictatorship of the european institutions over greek economic policy, no to unemployment, no to poverty, no to debt slavery. last wednesday, the ecb took action to impede the financing of greek banks and, in turn, the greek economy. mr juncker explained that the european treaties and other contracts cannot be called into question by democracy; what then remains of the will and sovereignty of the peoples? in fact, the objective is clear: to force the greek authorities to betray their people, to abandon their electoral commitments and to return to the european austerity policy. between mrs merkel's intransigence and the ecb's low-handedness, we are dealing with a euro-dictatorship, where all the blows are allowed to bend democratically elected governments and impose a decided policy in brussels and berlin. ladies and gentlemen, the european union has clearly become the enemy of democracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of terrorism, it is our absolute duty to protect the citizens of europe. and courage is telling the truth to the public. a secure wrapping would not protect us, it would damage our democracies by curtailing the public freedoms of all. our enemy is feeding on every democratic setback. he exploits the inequalities in our societies to recruit lost and humiliated children. detection and surveillance are essential. but to prevent radicalisation, we must fight to build an inclusive society, which remains our greatest strength against the murderous madness of terrorists. we will not win by force alone. we must also combat the fantasy of a clash of civilizations and the reality of humiliation, unemployment and exclusion. to combat terrorism, we must combat the opacity of european tax havens and sanction european banks that launder funds for terrorists by banning them from operating in europe, such as hsbc. it's a lot more efficient than spending $500 million on a random pnr.
mr president, i would like to thank president tusk and the latvian presidency for deciding to devote the next european council to the fight against terrorism as a priority, as we, the french delegation of the epp, had requested. ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against terrorism, we cannot march into the streets on 11 january and refuse on 11 february the only new effective measure which is up to the european union! the political question we are asked is not 'is it a pnr? the question is not whether we will have a european pnr or 28 national pnrs, but whether we will have a european pnr or 28 national pnrs, with, of course, the same problems for freedoms and a much lower effectiveness for the prevention of terrorism. those who do so underestimate the danger of terrorism and place more trust in their national parliament than in the european parliament to defend freedoms. that is strange, at least from those who are willing to call themselves federalists. let's be serious and responsible. the honour and greatness of our democracies lies in fighting terrorism in accordance with the rule of law. we have done it: spain has done it against eta, the united kingdom and ireland against the ira, germany, italy and france against extremist movements of the right and the left. these were then internal problems within a country, or binational. war is declared today against all of europe, against all our countries, against all our common values. a text is ready! of course, we can improve it, but we have to vote on it very quickly. we spend our time criticizing governments that favor "every man for himself". for once, governments are recognising the limits of national action and are calling for european action. our european parliament must be the first to contribute to this and not the last to resign itself to it.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr lundgren, you have just voted in favour of the european nrp. however, don't you minimize the risk of infringement of public freedoms? we're going to have some personal information leaked to a lot of people, including our american partner. do you not see this as a danger to liberties?
mr president, in recent weeks, in the fight against terrorism, the eyes have been focused on the european parliament. there have been - and this is unfortunate - attempts to exploit the debate in a factual opposition between, on the one hand, the wishful-wishing in parliament, the defenders of individual freedoms, and, on the other, a pragmatic and responsible council. it was not up to the challenge. fortunately, in-depth discussions have led to changes in these positions, particularly on the pnr, and i welcome this. at this point in the debate, i think we must continue to be alert to a pitfall which was well expressed by first vice-president timmermans in his speech earlier. this would be to focus exclusively on the introduction of new tools without properly testing, evaluating and fully implementing existing tools. european action in the fight against terrorism is a long-term action and the toolbox is well supplied. so let's test these tools. among them is the schengen code, which i believe must be given the right signals. it would be quite incomprehensible, therefore, if the council were to concentrate on a reform project which would finally enable it to do what it can already do.
mr president, before becoming president of the european council, herman van rompuy proposed that an extraordinary european council be held in february 2010 to discuss economic governance. it could not take place because mr van rompuy had to deal with the urgency of the situation in greece. in february 2015, for his first european council, the new president of the european council, donald tusk, also proposed an extraordinary european council on the issue of economic governance and on a report that should be the report of the four presidents, but which we would like to see become the report of the five presidents. it is unlikely that he will be able to do so, because other issues have been brought up: terrorism, ukraine and greece. i think the europeans are getting tired of this situation. these questions, which seem to be open to debate, must now be dealt with urgently. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because to impose structural reform from abroad is to feed euroscepticism. it is therefore urgent that the european council does its work, that is to say, that it finds the way to achieve the deepening and completion of economic and monetary union.
in writing. terrorist organisations seek to undermine the foundations of our democracy and attack our core values. in order to deal with this threat, the european union and its member states share the responsibility to ensure the protection of european citizens and to enable them to live in peace and security. the european social democrats are calling for a coordinated approach to this global challenge of unprecedented scale. a strategy focused on preventing radicalisation, countering terrorism and bringing those responsible to justice. a response that respects the essential balance between freedom and security. we expect the council to take concrete measures to strengthen european cooperation against terrorism. it is a question of making the best use of the potential of existing instruments, as well as thinking about mechanisms that could have real added value, such as the european pnr, provided that they fully respect our fundamental rights. the urgent need is also for more social inclusion and integration, the promotion of coexistence, solidarity and tolerance, first and foremost at school. our determination and unity must be unwavering if we are to succeed together in overcoming this trial. our europe will emerge stronger and more determined.
in writing. this item is intended merely as a consolidation of the existing texts on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland, council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972. there is no change in substance to the 1972 texts in this case. since i could not oppose this recodification, but did not support the principle of the obligation to transpose the text into national law, i thought it appropriate to abstain.
in writing. the proposed codification allows a new regulation to replace the previous acts, in the interests of clarity and updating. however, the use of the procedure of the implementing acts is not necessary. as i am opposed in principle to such transfers of sovereignty, i logically abstained from voting. the member states have the competence and more legitimacy than the commission to assess the appropriateness of an existing regulatory framework, in particular where it concerns export aid, an element of trade policy which i consider to be an essential tool of the sovereign economic policy of the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. this new regulation replaces the various acts incorporated therein. it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups it together, making only the formal changes required by the actual codification process.
in writing. in view of the numerous amendments made to council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with iceland, the commission wishes to codify the regulation. even if it is merely 'a pure and simple codification of existing texts' for the sake of clarity, i question the commission's legitimacy in adopting implementing acts aimed at codifying texts of international law, which is naturally a prerogative of sovereign states. that's why i abstained.
in writing. this report on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with iceland sets out in this context the uniform conditions for the implementation of this scheme, by conferring on the commission implementing powers to be exercised in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council (in particular in the case of export aid having a direct and immediate effect on trade or in the case of imperative grounds of urgency). i abstained on this text because, while i recognize the commission's legitimacy to adopt immediately applicable implementing acts, i believe that sovereign member states are best placed to react effectively in this context.
in writing. this consolidating text follows the agreement between the eec and iceland signed on 22 july 1972. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the question of the commission's legitimacy to adopt immediately applicable implementing acts remains open. if the agreement, from the point of view of public international law, was signed by the eec and iceland, the member states would be better able to react effectively, especially in the face of cases of export aid having a direct and immediate impact on trade. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. the commission has decided to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. in substance, the agreement allows member states to react more effectively in the event of iceland's non-compliance with the rules of the agreement. however, i question the commission's legitimacy in adopting implementing acts aimed at codifying texts of international law, which is a prerogative naturally reserved to sovereign states. that is why i abstained on the vote on this text.
in writing. codification of legislative texts is a kind of compilation of different european regulations that deal with the same subject. the aim is to simplify and make european legislation more accessible. i voted in favour of this report on the codification of the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland.
in writing. i have decided to abstain on this text for reasons of consistency. it is true that the agreement was signed by the eec in 1972, from the point of view of international law, at a time when the european economic community was still an association of strategic partnership between sovereign states. however, what is the legitimacy of the european commission to adopt immediately applicable implementing acts? once again, the supranationalist will of the union is at odds with pragmatism: the nation states are certainly best placed to manage these clauses, especially in cases of export aid which have a direct and immediate impact on trade.
in writing. this report proposes to codify in european union law council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland, substantially amended in 1990 and 2014. safeguard measures are a trade defence instrument which can protect a european importing sector for a period of between four and eight years and give it time to adapt to a substantial increase in imports. i support this text, which is merely an exercise in codifying positive law without any substantive changes. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this codification of the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland is welcome. since the regulation in question has been amended many times, it was necessary to clarify it further. i am therefore in favour of these procedures which make it easier to understand european legislation.
in writing. if the proposed codification allows a new regulation to replace previous acts for the sake of clarity and updating, the use of the implementing acts is not necessary. i am opposed to such transfers of sovereignty and abstained in this vote. it also appears that the member states have the competence and more legitimacy than the commission to assess the appropriateness of an existing regulatory framework, in particular where it concerns export aid, an element of trade policy which i consider to be an essential tool of the economic policy of a sovereign state.
in writing. i abstained because i cannot possibly give any legitimacy to the process of codifying european law. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. i abstained on this proposal for a regulation on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with iceland. this abstention is not due to the measures themselves, which are typical of this type of agreement, but because it is highly questionable whether the commission will adopt implementing acts in relation to these measures. in my view, it is the member states that are best placed to react effectively and swiftly, particularly in the face of export aids which have a direct and immediate impact on trade.
in writing. if the proposed codification allows a new regulation to replace previous acts for the sake of clarity and updating, the use of the implementing acts is not necessary. i am opposed to such transfers of sovereignty and abstained in this vote. it also appears that the member states have the competence and more legitimacy than the commission to assess the appropriateness of an existing regulatory framework, in particular where it concerns export aid, an element of trade policy which i consider to be an essential tool of the economic policy of a sovereign state.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which merely codifies council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. this codification of positive law will provide greater clarity and transparency for european citizens, who must be able to access european legislation easily.
in writing. the commission wishes to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. in substance, this agreement allows member states to react more effectively in the event of iceland's non-compliance with previously established rules. however, i deny the commission the legitimacy to adopt implementing acts aimed at codifying texts of international law, a prerogative of sovereign states. i dispute that supranational position. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. this regulation lays down the situations in which the commission is authorized to temporarily restrict imports of an icelandic product. i object to the commission's interference in this matter. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing solidarity protectionism, which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. so even if it is only a technical report, i am voting against it.
in writing. the commission wishes to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. in substance, this agreement allows member states to react more effectively in the event of iceland's non-compliance with previously established rules. however, i deny the commission the legitimacy to adopt implementing acts aimed at codifying texts of international law, a prerogative of sovereign states. i dispute that supranational position. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which codifies regulation (eec) no 2843/72 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the proposal in question is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the commission wishes to codify council regulation (eec) no 2843/72 of 19 december 1972 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland. in substance, this agreement allows member states to react more effectively in the event of iceland's non-compliance with previously established rules. however, i deny the commission the legitimacy to adopt implementing acts aimed at codifying texts of international law, a prerogative of sovereign states. i dispute that supranational position. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. through this recommendation, it is up to the european parliament to vote in favour of the codification of a text in the legal order of the european union. as long as this does not involve any substantial changes and allows for greater legibility of this right, i vote in favour.
in writing. i supported this text because it is part of a process of facilitating community law, initiated by the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994. when several texts on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of iceland are being revised, the european commission has undertaken to merge the various texts into one in order to make community law clearer and more concise. it is important that eu legislation remains simple and clear.
in writing. i am in favour of adopting this text, which is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 of 23 july 2001 on the measures that the community may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body concerning anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures. since the new regulation preserves the substance of the original text in its entirety and merely consolidates the various acts incorporated in it, making only the formal changes required by the very process of codification, i voted against it. i believe that the member states should have greater latitude in their trade relations with third countries, and that such a regulation prevents them from doing so.
in writing. the dispute settlement body is a new tool created by the world trade organisation to bring national laws into line with the requirements of the wto and multinational companies. the european union facilitates the interference of organisations which are totally foreign to the interests of the member states. for these reasons, i voted against this text. it believes that the only way to return to a realistic and effective economic policy is to pursue national policies. the member states have interests so divergent that it is obviously impossible to accord them all, so much so that only germany today benefits from the policies of a union which is subject to it. the freedom of each country to protect itself and to develop economic patriotism is one of the alternative solutions to this perishing economic system.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is really a mere codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. i voted against this report, which is emblematic of the loss of sovereignty of european states encouraged by the european commission: the latter docilely agrees to comply with the decisions of the wto dispute settlement body (dsb). by forcing states to change their laws and regulations to bring them into line with the neoliberal rules it establishes, the wto benefits only the multinationals that dominate the world market. this report proposes to take a further step in this direction. the commission would thus be empowered to amend or repeal measures criticised by the bord and to adopt new measures aimed at bringing union law into line with the bord recommendations. i am firmly attached to the priority of national law over union law, especially when it is contrary to the interests of our peoples, and i strongly oppose the restriction of the member states' freedom of manoeuvre in the conduct of their trade relations.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to propose a regulation to lay down specific provisions to enable the union, where it deems it appropriate, to bring a measure taken under regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 (anti-dumping measures) or (ec) no 597/2009 (anti-subsidy measures) into conformity. in practice, this means that the contested measure is repealed or amended or that another implementing measure is adopted. it is not normal that the member states cannot retain a full margin of manoeuvre in external relations, especially trade, since the disparities and demands are too different from one country to another in the union. moreover, this regulation subjects us to the european commission, which imposes compliance, which is in fact the aim of the dispute settlement body, which is an offshoot of the wto. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. common rules to protect against subsidised imports from non-eu countries were laid down by a council regulation in 2009. the text states that 'in the framework of the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation (wto), a memorandum of understanding on rules and procedures governing the settlement of disputes has been adopted. in accordance with this mou, a dispute settlement body (dsb) was established. ... specific provisions should be laid down to enable the union, when it deems it appropriate, to bring a measure taken ... into line with the recommendations and decisions contained in a report adopted by the dsb.' i voted against this text because member states should retain full freedom of manoeuvre in the conduct of their external trade relations without being subject to compliance by the european commission with a dsb decision, which is simply an outgrowth of the wto.
in writing. the european parliament proposes to adopt the commission's proposal for a regulation which would allow it to repeal or amend a measure challenged by a report of the dispute settlement body (dsb). in addition, the commission would be competent to adopt any other implementing measures necessary to bring union law into line with the recommendations of the dsb. because i formally challenge the primacy of eu law over national law, especially when its implementation involves complying with the highly questionable injunctions of the wto, i am opposed to the european commission being able to arbitrarily amend a law which particularly affects the commercial practice of the member states. the proposal for a regulation is part of a strategy to strengthen the european commission's prerogatives in international law. i am committed to preserving france's room for manoeuvre on the international economic scene and therefore voted against this text.
in writing. codification of legislative texts is a kind of compilation of different european regulations dealing with the same subject. the aim of codification is to simplify european legislation and make it more accessible. in this particular case, we are talking about the codification of legislation on anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures. it is essential to have maximum clarity and precision on these matters. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted against this text, which represents an attempt to erase our sovereignty by a supranational structure. the ability to conduct trade negotiations is an indispensable lever for ensuring the prosperity and freedom of any nation state. the dispute settlement body, which is the wto's replacement, is therefore presented as a mechanism for global or even globalised management, that is to say, to the detriment of dialogue between sovereign states. moreover, it is not the european commission's job to represent the interests different, or even divergent, in some cases of each member state of the union.
in writing. this report proposes to codify into eu law council regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 on the measures that the community may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body concerning anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures, as substantially amended in 2014. this text allows the union, when it deems it appropriate, to take trade defence measures, namely anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures, in accordance with the recommendations and decisions contained in a report adopted by the dispute settlement body (dsb) of the world trade organisation concerning these measures. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any change in substance. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. with this vote, the european parliament is demonstrating its desire to encourage greater transparency in european law. the consolidation of the regulation on the measures that the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body on anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures is indeed in the right direction. this brings clarity to a text that has undergone many changes.
in writing. the dispute settlement body is a new tool created by the world trade organisation to bring national laws into line with the requirements of the wto and multinational companies. the european union facilitates the interference of organisations which are totally foreign to the interests of the member states. reasons why i voted against this text. it believes that the only way to return to a realistic and effective economic policy is to pursue national policies. the member states have interests so divergent that it is obviously impossible to accord them all, so much so that only germany today benefits from the policies of a union which is subject to it. the freedom of each country to protect itself and to develop economic patriotism is one of the alternative solutions to this perishing economic system.
in writing. i can only vote against this text. foreign policy, and therefore foreign trade policy, can only be conducted under the full sovereignty of the states. it is unacceptable that the european commission - a body of weightless technocrats - should have any influence on the foreign trade policy of our countries. the commission is the vassal of an institution (the odr) that is even more distant and abstract to our citizens.
in writing. i voted against this proposal on the possibilities for the union to take anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures for two reasons: firstly, the introduction of these measures is conditional on the adoption of a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body, which already leads to a loss of reactivity that leaves the field open to the dumping states. on the other hand, experience shows that the european commission has never been quick to defend the interests of europeans in the face of distortions of competition imposed by third countries. in view of this failure, it is essential that the member states should be able to react to these anti-competitive practices without waiting for a hypothetical action by the european union.
in writing. i voted against this text and i will explain why. the dispute settlement body is a new tool created by the world trade organisation to bring national legislation into line with wto recommendations. the european union is once again facilitating the interference of organisations which are totally foreign to the interests of the member states. the commission will have the task of bringing all the states which have not yet applied any of its directives into line. we, the members of the national front, on the contrary, believe that the only way to restore a coherent, functional and effective economic policy is to return to national policies, free of supranational institutions. the member states have interests so divergent that it is obviously impossible to accord them all, so much so that only germany today benefits from the policies of a union which is subject to it. the freedom of each country to protect itself and to develop economic patriotism is one of the alternative solutions to this economic system which is perishing before our eyes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which codifies the regulation on the measures that the union may take following the adoption of a wto dispute settlement body decision on anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures. this codification exercise makes it possible to present european legislation in a clearer and more accessible way to european citizens.
in writing. the european parliament wishes to endorse the commission's proposal for a regulation allowing it to repeal or amend a measure challenged by a report of the dispute settlement body (dsb). the commission would also be competent to adopt any other implementing measures necessary to bring union law into line with the recommendations of the dsb. because i reject the primacy of eu law over national law, especially when its implementation is to comply with the less-than-questionable injunctions of the wto, i am against the fact that the european commission can arbitrarily modify a law which affects mainly the commercial practice of the member states. this proposal for a regulation is part of a strategy to strengthen the european commission's prerogatives in international law and therefore goes against the very principle of national sovereignty. i did not want to weaken france's room for manoeuvre on the international economic scene any further, so i opposed this text.
in writing. i voted against this text because it rewrites a text which already gave the brussels commission the power to apply decisions of the wto dispute settlement body. this allocation of competence is one aspect of the abandonment by the member states of the union of their trade policy to the technocracy of brussels. i believe that the states must regain their sovereignty in this area, so that they can implement intelligent protectionism, the antithesis of free trade, which is being implemented without any precautions by the wto and the union.
in writing. votes against this text. the sovereignty of each member state must be respected. a state must be able to maintain control over its trade policy without being obliged to submit to the directives of supranational organizations. it must be able to take all the measures it deems necessary to defend its economy against unfair competition. the commission's powers of action could be weakened by imposing uniform rules.
in writing. codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this proposal is to codify regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 on the measures that the community may take following a report adopted by the dispute settlement body (dsb) of the world trade organisation (wto) concerning anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures. indeed, when the dsb adopts a report on a union measure, the commission may request additional information on the contested measure, repeal it or amend it as appropriate. i am voting against the wto's control of european economies, even if the only thing we are doing here is codifying its application.
in writing. the ep wants to adopt the commission's proposal for a regulation allowing it to repeal or amend a measure challenged by a report from the dispute settlement body (dsb). the commission would also be competent to adopt any other implementing measures necessary to bring union law into line with the recommendations of the dsb. because i reject the primacy of eu law over national law, especially when its implementation is to comply with the less-than-questionable injunctions of the wto, i am against the fact that the european commission can arbitrarily modify a law which affects mainly the commercial practice of the member states. this proposal for a regulation is part of a strategy to strengthen the european commission's prerogatives in international law and therefore goes against the very principle of national sovereignty. i did not want to weaken france's room for manoeuvre on the international economic scene any further, so i opposed this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which codifies regulation (ec) no 1515/2001 on the measures that the union may take following a report adopted by the wto dispute settlement body concerning anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. the european parliament wishes to endorse the commission's proposal for a regulation allowing it to repeal or amend a measure challenged by a report of the dispute settlement body (dsb). the commission would also be competent to adopt any other implementing measures necessary to bring union law into line with the recommendations of the dsb. because i reject the primacy of eu law over national law, especially when its implementation is to comply with the less-than-questionable injunctions of the wto, i am against the fact that the european commission can arbitrarily modify a law which affects mainly the commercial practice of the member states. this proposal for a regulation is part of a strategy to strengthen the european commission's prerogatives in international law and therefore goes against the very principle of national sovereignty. i did not want to weaken france's room for manoeuvre on the international economic scene any further, so i opposed this text.
in writing. this recommendation calls on the european parliament to vote in favour of the codification of a text in the legal order of the european union. the purpose of this text is to bring the european union into compliance and to enable it to take retaliatory measures following a report adopted by the wto dispute body. i am committed to the principle of reciprocity and i support this type of mechanism. so, since this codification does not bring about any substantial changes and allows for greater legibility of this right, i am voting in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the process of facilitating community law initiated by the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994; it's a coding without modifying the text. the commission has also adopted a legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the measures that the union may take following a report adopted by the dispute settlement body (dsb) of the world trade organisation (wto) concerning anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures. the regulation thus allows the european union, when it deems it appropriate, to bring an anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measure into line with the recommendations and decisions of a report adopted by the wto dsb.
in writing. i am in favour of adopting this text, which is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the aim of anti-dumping and countervailing measures is to remedy market distortions created by unfair trade practices, whereas the aim of safeguard tariff measures is to protect against a sharp increase in imports. the european commission considers that the combination of the two against a single product may have a greater impact than expected in the light of the union's trade defence policy and objectives. the commission considered that such a combination could impose an unjustified burden on certain exporting producers seeking to export to the union and deny them access to the union market. the commission submits that it is not always possible to determine in advance the precise moment when such overlap will occur, and therefore it seizes the opportunity to be able to modify, suspend or repeal anti-dumping and/or countervailing measures at its discretion or to provide for total or partial exemption from anti-dumping or countervailing duties. this decision seems to be an aberration, since this regulation will allow the european commission to deprive itself of the few protectionist tools at its disposal. i therefore naturally spoke out against this text, which is based on a logic which goes against the expectations of my fellow citizens.
in writing. i voted against this ideological text which favours free trade to the detriment of our manufacturing industries. our productive forces are being competed with by countries where labour and production costs are very low and the european union is preventing member states from protecting themselves in the name of the principle of free movement of capital and goods. the timid measures taken against unfair competition are proving ineffective in the face of an entire system which is destroying our productive apparatus. these small steps were however quickly reversed by political forces fiercely committed to defending globalisation and assuming their refusal to accept that countries wishing to export to the union bear "unjustified financial burdens", thus sweeping away the outline of european protectionism.
in writing. in this text, the parliament and the council question what they consider to be a danger of protectionism which, in respect of certain imported goods only, would result from the simultaneous application of anti-dumping and countervailing measures on the one hand and safeguard tariff measures on the other. the purpose of the proposed regulation is to enable the commission in cases where it considers that exporters seeking to export to the union are being overly penalized by financial burdens or by prohibitions on access to the union market to amend, suspend or repeal existing anti-dumping and/or countervailing measures or even to exempt imports from anti-dumping/countervailing duties which would otherwise have to be paid. this appalling sacrifice of the national interests of the member states in favour of the free trade dogma, which rejects any idea of protectionism, national or continental, once again demonstrates the absurdity of the union's economic and trade policy. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. this report proposes a regulation which lays down specific provisions to allow the commission to act at its discretion, so as to avoid that a combination of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard tariff measures against the same product imposes an unjustified burden on certain exporting producers seeking to export to the union, and thereby denies them access to the union market. even if the regulations provide for anti-dumping clauses through collective action measures or a national safeguard clause (which is now heavily reduced), the text is based on the principle that the union must allow exporters seeking to export to the union not to be penalised by financial burdens or by prohibitions on access to the union market. the commission is not thereby derogating from the rule of the sacred dogma of free and undistorted competition and is no longer hesitating to promote the interests of the member states by prohibiting all protectionism even as the number of barriers to trade in many countries of the world continues to grow, directly affecting european-based industries and services. i therefore voted against this regulation.
in writing. even when it comes under the union's competence, trade policy is not entirely common. member states have the possibility of taking measures against third states, and even against member states. but the freedom to take action within the community is being reduced more and more. the former ec treaty (article 134) provided for a national safeguard clause, the scope of which is now considerably reduced. collective defence measures are also provided for, in particular against dumping. the text deals with the combined effects of these two types of measures. i voted against this text, in particular the adaptation of recitals 7 and 8 which state that 'it should therefore be ensured that exporting producers seeking to export to the union do not bear unjustified financial burdens and can continue to have access to the union market. it is therefore desirable that the objectives of the safeguard measures and of the anti-dumping and/or countervailing measures can be achieved without the exporting producers concerned being denied access to the union market.'
in writing. the proposal for a regulation of the council and of the european parliament codifies council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures which the european community may take in respect of anti-dumping measures. in concrete terms, this new regulation will allow the commission to take discretionary action against a member state in the field of anti-dumping legislation. if the commission considers that a combination of anti-dumping measures against an imported product creates an unjustified burden for certain exporters, it will be entitled to amend, suspend or repeal any legal or regulatory provisions, and even to provide for total or partial exemption from anti-dumping duties. the granting of this power is a scandal and must be strongly condemned. it is for the member states, not the commission, to decide in a sovereign manner whether an anti-dumping measure is proportionate to the risk posed by the importation of a product. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. the purpose of codification is to simplify and make european legislation more accessible. it is a kind of compilation of different european regulations dealing with the same subject. codification of the combined effect of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard measures is very important for the proper functioning of the single market and international trade. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. once again, the european union is using trade leverage to increase and broaden its powers. the member states, under the treaties, are supposed to retain the possibility of taking measures against third states and even member states. however, the commission is increasingly taking over trade prerogatives, sometimes to the detriment of member states' interests, as is seen in the ttip negotiations with the united states. that is why, in the name of defending french interests, i voted against this text.
in writing. this report proposes to codify into eu law council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 on the measures that the union may take in the event of the combined effect of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard measures, as substantially amended in 2014. the proposed regulation lays down specific provisions to allow the commission to act at its discretion, so as to avoid that a combination of trade defence measures, known as anti-dumping or countervailing measures, and safeguard tariff measures against the same product imposes an unjustified burden on certain exporting producers seeking to export to the union and thereby denies them access to the union market. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any change in substance. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. a regulation, amended several times, loses its intelligibility. that is why we have here sought to codify the regulation on the measures which the union may take in view of the combined effect of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard measures, without changing its substance. i supported this measure which promotes the readability of this text.
in writing. i voted against this text which, once again, favours free trade to the detriment of our industries. our productive forces are facing competition from countries where labour and production costs are very low and the european union is preventing member states from protecting themselves in the name of the principle of free movement of capital and goods. the timid measures taken against unfair competition are proving ineffective in the face of an entire system which is destroying our productive apparatus. these small steps were however quickly reversed by certain political forces fiercely committed to defending globalisation and assuming their refusal to accept that countries wishing to export to the union bear "unjustified financial burdens", thus sweeping away the outline of european protectionism.
in writing. i voted against this proposal on the combined effect of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard measures. if this proposal for a regulation merely codifies existing texts without changing their substance, it is nonetheless unacceptable on the substance. the freedom of member states to take safeguard measures is increasingly limited. the old ec treaty, in article 34, provided for a national safeguard clause, the scope of which has been reduced by the action of the european institutions. i do not wish to endorse this drift which is gradually depriving the states of the means to react.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against this text, which, once again, is more about facilitating trade than helping our industries. our productive forces are in competition with those of third world countries where labour is both cheaper and more servile, but the european union is preventing its member states from protecting themselves in the name of the sacred principle of the free movement of capital and goods. the union is trying to protect itself by adopting timid measures to compensate for this unfair competition. unfortunately, although we welcomed this awareness, some members of the european parliament were quick to backtrack on this start. not wanting to impede globalisation, which has made us so poor, they added that there was no question of countries wishing to export to the union bearing "unjustified financial burdens". and so the meagre attempt at european protectionism has disappeared.
in writing. i supported this report which will allow the codification of council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures that the community may take in the event of the combined effect of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard measures. this exercise in codification is commendable in that it allows a clearer reading of a regulation which has been amended on several occasions.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal for a regulation of the council and of the european parliament is to codify council regulation no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures which the european community may take in respect of anti-dumping measures. in fact, this new regulation will allow the commission to act at its own discretion against a member state in the field of anti-dumping legislation. if the commission considers that a combination of anti-dumping measures against an imported product creates an unjustified burden for certain exporters, it will be entitled to amend, suspend or repeal any legal or regulatory provision and even to provide for total or partial exemption from anti-dumping duties. the attribution of this competence is truly scandalous and unacceptable. it is for the member states to decide sovereignly whether an anti-dumping measure is proportionate to the risk posed by the importation of a product and not for the commission. i voted against this text.
in writing. codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this report is to codify regulation 452/2003 concerning the measures that the union may take in view of the combined effect of anti-dumping or anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures. it is this regulation that allows eu member states to take safeguard measures. however, it is also the regulation which gives the commission the power to amend, suspend or repeal anti-dumping and/or countervailing measures or to provide for total or partial exemption from anti-dumping or countervailing duties. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. i am opposed to this commission's attempt to control the substance of the matter and i shall vote against this technical report.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal for a regulation of the council and of the european parliament is to codify council regulation no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures which the european community may take in respect of anti-dumping measures. in fact, this new regulation will allow the commission to act at its own discretion against a member state in the field of anti-dumping legislation. if the commission considers that a combination of anti-dumping measures against an imported product has created an unjustified burden for certain exporters, it will be entitled to amend, suspend or repeal any legal or regulatory provisions and even provide for total or partial exemption from anti-dumping duties. the attribution of this competence is truly scandalous and unacceptable. it is for the member states to decide sovereignly whether an anti-dumping measure is proportionate to the risk posed by the importation of a product and not for the commission. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which codifies regulation (ec) no 452/2003 on the measures that the union may take in the light of the combined effect of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard measures. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation of the council and of the european parliament codifies council regulation (ec) no 452/2003 of 6 march 2003 on the measures which the european community may take in respect of anti-dumping measures. in fact, this new regulation will allow the commission to act at its own discretion against a member state in the field of anti-dumping legislation. if the commission considers that a combination of anti-dumping measures against an imported product creates an unjustified burden for certain exporters, it will be entitled to amend, suspend or repeal any legal or regulatory provision, and even to provide for total or partial exemption from anti-dumping duties. the attribution of this competence is truly scandalous and unacceptable. it is for the member states to decide sovereignly whether an anti-dumping measure is proportionate to the risk posed by the importation of a product and not for the commission. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. through this recommendation, it is up to the european parliament to vote in favour of the codification of a text in the legal order of the european union. the structure of international trade requires effective instruments to ensure competition on a level playing field and consumer protection. i therefore welcome any measure to increase the use of this type of instrument. so, since this codification does not involve any substantial changes and allows for greater legibility of this right, i am voting in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the process of facilitating community law initiated by the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994; this is a codification without any change to the text. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union with the republic of armenia. the regulation allows for specific provisions to be established to allow the commission to act at its discretion, in order to avoid that a combination of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard tariff measures against the same product imposes an unjustified burden on certain exporting producers seeking to export to the union and thereby denies them access to the union market.
in writing. i am in favour of adopting this text, which is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 26 february 2009 on common rules for imports. this system establishes a prohibition of quantitative restrictions on imports into the union on the basis of the principle of free trade. however, since the text provides for protective measures for the production of the member states, but i do not know to what extent they will be applicable and/or actually applied, i preferred to abstain on this vote.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of positive steps in this direction, such as the introduction of a system of protectionism and safeguarding and monitoring measures. any brake on ultra-liberalism and blind free trade is to be encouraged, since it calls into question a system in which nation states are no longer free. however, there are some weaknesses in this text. there is no mention of the national level or at least of the national freedom to promote national products. considering that the nation state is the only level capable of guaranteeing the proper economic functioning of a society, the elected representatives of the front national cannot vote in favour of this text. so i decided to abstain. it is not enough to leave the union to protect european industries: it is essential to give member states priority on these issues and to leave them free to conduct their own national economic policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. although the text contains safeguard and surveillance measures which are laudable because they are conducive to the protection of the internal market of the member states (if they are actually implemented), i am opposed to the principle of free trade which is the basis of this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore abstained on the vote on this report.
in writing. this report on the common import arrangements proposes a regulation which introduces the principle of freedom of importation of products originating in third countries (except for exceptions), subject to possible safeguard measures. this text therefore establishes a prohibition of quantitative restrictions on the basis of the wto principle of free trade, but safeguard and surveillance measures can enable the union to take measures to protect our internal market and our local production (if this is actually applied). in view of these factors, i abstained on this report.
in writing. this text recalls the principles of gatt, in particular the prohibition of quantitative restrictions and the principle that the common customs tariff should suffice. it codifies, without substantial changes to the text, the common rules applicable to imports, in particular in the context of the world trade organisation (wto). if the principle of free trade promoted by the wto is reprehensible and to be rejected, the safeguard and surveillance measures contained in the text may enable the union to take the measures necessary to protect the internal market. it is also regrettable that the quantitative and tariff quotas authorized for certain products by these international commitments are not being used to defend our national production. so i refrained.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal for a regulation of the council and the european parliament is to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for imports. while i am opposed in principle to this type of text, which facilitates free trade and disarms the member states in the face of unbridled globalisation, i would nevertheless stress that it allows surveillance and safeguard measures to be taken in the interests of producers, where certain massive imports are likely to cause them serious damage. however, member states must take back the competence for tariff and non-tariff quotas when vital economic and agricultural sectors are seriously threatened by unfair competition. as the current state of the legislation is not satisfactory, i abstained on the vote on this text.
in writing. one of the objectives of european legislators is to make european legislation simpler and more accessible so that it can be applied as effectively as possible. the codification is a means of achieving this objective. i voted in favour of this report on the codification of the common rules for imports.
in writing. i have decided to abstain on this text, which once again symbolises the european union's willingness to get bogged down in a system which disregards the interests of the peoples it is supposed to represent. the report is based on the principle of the prohibition of quantitative restrictions, that is to say, the prohibition of restrictions on the import or sale of products originating in the territory of other member states: it is therefore impossible to defend our national production. however, the report contains some interesting safeguard and surveillance measures with a view to protecting the internal market from competition from third countries.
in writing. this report proposes the codification in european union law of council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 on the common rules for imports, as substantially amended in 2014. the text proposes to introduce the principle of freedom of importation of products originating in third countries, subject to possible safeguard measures. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any change in substance. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. a regulation, amended several times, loses its intelligibility. the commission has therefore decided to codify the regulation on the measures which the union may take in view of the combined effect of anti-dumping or countervailing measures and safeguard measures, without changing the substance of the regulation. i supported this measure which promotes the readability of this text.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of positive steps in this direction, such as the introduction of a system of protectionism and safeguarding and monitoring measures. any brake on ultra-liberalism and blind free trade is to be encouraged, since it calls into question a system in which nation states are no longer free. however, there are some weaknesses in this text. there is no mention of the national level or at least of the national freedom to promote national products. considering that the nation state is the only level capable of guaranteeing the proper economic functioning of a society, we cannot vote in favour of this text. so i decided to abstain. it is not enough to leave the union to protect european industries: it is essential to give member states priority on these issues and to leave them free to conduct their own national economic policies.
in writing. i abstained on this proposal. the aim is to codify, without altering the substance of the common import arrangements, in particular within the framework of the world trade organisation (wto). however, it is regrettable that the quantitative and tariff quotas, which are authorized for certain products, are never used to defend french and european producers.
in writing. i preferred to abstain on this text. the contributions it contains cannot be ignored: reasoned protectionism, safeguarding and surveillance measures, etc. this is a timid first step towards protecting our industries and products, while favouring european products. any obstacle to ultraliberalism and blind free trade is in itself encouraging, since it challenges a system in which nation states no longer have a say. nevertheless, we cannot ignore the weaknesses of this text. indeed, there is no mention of the national level, or at least of the national freedom to favour its own products over imports. since the nation state is the only one capable of guaranteeing the cohesion and the proper economic functioning of its society, we cannot vote in favour of this text. it is not enough to leave the union free to protect its industry: it is essential to give member states priority on these issues and to leave them free to pursue their own economic policies.
in writing. i support this report which proposes to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 on the common rules for imports, substantially amended in 2014. without changing the substance of the report, it offers a clearer reading of the european legislation thus codified.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal for a regulation of the council and the european parliament is to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for imports. i am, in essence, hostile to this type of text which facilitates free trade and leaves the member states and their economies at the mercy of unbridled globalisation. as regards the form, i note that it allows certain surveillance and safeguard measures to be taken in the interests of producers, particularly in the event of massive imports likely to cause them serious damage. however, member states must be able to take back control of tariff and non-tariff quota competence when vital economic and agricultural sectors are directly threatened by unfair competition. the current state of the legislation is still more than vague, so i voted against.
in writing. the scheme proposed in this report is part of the economic system of free trade. we cannot set up quantitative restrictions or tariff barriers for certain products on our own. we are therefore unable to protect our national production, which would allow us to fight unfair competition. i shall abstain on this report.
in writing. codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the aim here is to codify the texts relating to the common import arrangements. it is in particular this regulation which provides that only the commission may decide to place certain imports under surveillance. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. i am opposed to the commission's control of these matters and i shall vote against this technical report.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal for a regulation of the council and the european parliament is to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for imports. i am, in essence, hostile to this type of text which facilitates free trade and puts member states and their economies in the grip of unbridled globalisation. as regards the form, i note that it allows certain surveillance and safeguard measures to be taken in the interests of producers, particularly in the event of massive imports likely to cause them serious damage. however, member states must be able to take back control of tariff and non-tariff quota competence when vital economic and agricultural sectors are directly threatened by unfair competition. the current state of the legislation is still more than vague, so i voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which codifies regulation (ec) no 260/2009 on the common rules for imports. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal for a regulation of the council and the european parliament is to codify council regulation (ec) no 260/2009 of 19 october 2009 establishing common rules for imports. i am, in essence, hostile to this type of text which facilitates free trade and puts member states and their economies in the grip of unbridled globalisation. as regards the form, i note that it allows certain surveillance and safeguard measures to be taken in the interests of producers, particularly in the event of massive imports likely to cause them serious damage. however, member states must be able to take back control of tariff and non-tariff quota competence when vital economic and agricultural sectors are directly threatened by unfair competition. the current state of the legislation is still more than vague, so i voted against.
in writing. through this recommendation, it is up to the european parliament to vote in favour of the codification of a text in the legal order of the european union. in the interests of clarity and transparency, it is therefore necessary to make this right more readable for our citizens. as long as this does not involve any substantial changes, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the process of facilitating community law initiated by the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994; the text is a simple codification of existing texts without any change in their substance. this is a legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the common rules for imports. the proposed regulation establishes the principle of freedom of importation of products originating in third countries, subject to possible safeguard measures. it would apply to imports of products originating in third countries, with the exception of certain textile products and products originating in certain third states. the proposal also introduces certain procedural elements concerning information, consultation, the investigation procedure, monitoring and safeguard measures.
in writing. i am in favour of adopting this text, which is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. it is regrettable that the scheme proposed in this report is in line with the principle of free trade imposed by the world trade organisation. the proposals for quantitative restrictions and the introduction of tariff barriers for certain products are unfortunately not applicable to our domestic production, which would allow us to protect it from unfair competition.
in writing. on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, the commission puts to the vote the codification of the regulation on the common system of export arrangements, followed by the regulation on the common system of import arrangements, etc. in line with the same rapporteur's text a8-0040/2014, i abstained.
in writing. i abstained on this vote, to express my deep disagreement with part of the text. if the desire to reduce the effects of the differences in competitiveness between the states and thus to reduce the effects of unfair competition in social matters can be praised, i can only denounce the political content of this text. the commission will be given more powers in relation to national export-financing policies. this is and must remain a purely national competence, the exclusive province of sovereign states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. the basic principle of the proposed regulation states that union exports to third countries are not subject to quantitative restrictions. this principle implies that the 'common commercial policy should be based on uniform principles', which is not without its implications for subsidies and national export finance policies. since there is no question of the commission being allowed to take away this competence from the member states in the name of 'harmonising' their export policies for all goods, i abstained.
in writing. the proposed regulation establishes the principle that exports to third countries are not subject to any quantitative restrictions. the aim is to harmonise the actions of exporting states for all goods. the main issues are subsidies (which need to be harmonised to avoid distortion of competition) and national export finance policies. however, this should be a matter for each member state rather than the union, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. the regulation, in its recitals 4 and 5, states that 'in all member states, exports are almost entirely exempt. ... maintain, at union level, the principle that exports to third countries are not subject to any quantitative restrictions, subject to the derogations provided for in this regulation and without prejudice to measures which member states may take in accordance with the treaty. the commission should be informed when, as a result of exceptional market developments, a member state considers that safeguard measures may be necessary. " this text is therefore part of the harmonization of the actions of exporting states for all goods. the main issues are subsidies (which need to be harmonised to avoid distortion of competition) and national export finance policies. i abstained on this text because it is a matter for each member state and the european union must not interfere in national policies.
in writing. codification makes it possible to compile certain texts of european legislation dealing with the same subject in order to simplify and make them more accessible. this report concerns the codification of the common export arrangements. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report is yet another sign of the european union's willingness to take over the responsibilities of the member states one by one. the approach of harmonizing the export regime, which is a priori consistent, thus ignores national needs since it involves, in particular, a review of subsidies and national policies of financial aid for exports. yet it is the latter that are the commercial successes of countries such as china, the united states or the brics. because i want my country to be able to pursue an ambitious industrial and trade policy, i abstained on this text.
in writing. this report proposes the codification in european union law of council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 establishing a common system of export refunds, substantially amended in 2014. this text establishes the principle that exports to third countries are not subject to any quantitative restrictions, subject to the derogations provided for in the regulation and without prejudice to the measures which the member states may take in accordance with the european treaties. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any change in substance. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this text, on which the european parliament has delivered its opinion, does not raise any particular obstacles. the proposal for codification is part of a welcome improvement in the clarity and transparency of the law. it does not alter the substance of the text and is simply a codification of the existing texts.
in writing. i abstained on this vote, to express my deep disagreement with part of the text. if the desire to reduce the effects of the differences in competitiveness between the member states and thus to reduce those of social dumping can be praised, i can only denounce the political content of this text. the commission will be given more powers in relation to national export-financing policies. this is and must remain purely national and the exclusive responsibility of sovereign peoples.
in writing. i voted against this proposal because i believe that any decision to restrict quantitatively exports to third countries is a matter for the sovereign right of the member states. the european commission has no business interfering in this decision. to take a concrete example, the french wood sector is experiencing serious difficulties due to the massive export of logs to third countries. the sawmills and the various wood processing companies face supply difficulties due to these exports. france should be able to limit its exports of logs without any intervention by the european union. the latter has largely proved that it does not care about the economic difficulties of a particular sector and prefers to stick to the application of liberal dogmas, sacrificing the actors concerned if necessary.
in writing. contrary to what is often believed or said, abstention is not the absence of opinion. i abstained on this vote to express my profound disagreement with part of the text. if we can praise the desire to reduce the differences in competition between the states and thus to reduce the effects of social or economic dumping, it is our duty as members of the national front to denounce the political content of this text. it also provides for even greater powers for the european institutions, and in particular the commission, in respect of national export-financing policies. this is and must remain purely national and the exclusive responsibility of sovereign peoples. we know that national sovereignty is seen as an obstacle by the european union, but we will never accept that. and that is why, once again, the front national will not support this text and will defend the sovereignty of the french in france.
in writing. i supported this report which merely codifies council regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 establishing a common system of export refunds. eu law is becoming clearer and more accessible to european citizens
in writing. the proposed regulation provides that exports to third countries will not be subject to any quantitative restrictions. the reason given is to harmonize the actions of exporting states for all goods. it should be noted that the basic problem remains, firstly with regard to the question of subsidies (which also need to be harmonised in order not to create distorted and unfair competition) and secondly with regard to national export finance policies. here again the european union is meddling in the affairs of the states and is once again seeking to restrict the national sovereignty of the member states. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. states are denied the right to take quantitative restrictive measures on exports which are subject to the principle of free trade. the aim of this text is to harmonise the practices of the states, obliging them to follow the same rules. there is no possibility for member states to take measures in a fully sovereign manner. the commission is therefore abstaining on this text, which does not allow member states to decide on the financial aid they wish to grant to their exports.
in writing. codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the aim here is to codify the texts relating to the common export arrangements. it is this regulation in particular which enables the commission to impose restrictions on certain exports. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. i am opposed to the commission's interference in this matter and i shall vote against this technical report.
in writing. the proposed regulation provides that exports to third countries will not be subject to any quantitative restrictions. the reason given is to harmonize the actions of exporting states for all goods. it should be noted that the basic problem remains, firstly with regard to subsidies (which also need to be harmonised in order not to create distorted and unfair competition) and secondly with regard to national export finance policies. here again the european union is meddling in the affairs of the states and is once again seeking to restrict the national sovereignty of the member states. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which codifies regulation (ec) no 1061/2009 establishing common rules for exports. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. the proposed regulation provides that exports to third countries will not be subject to any quantitative restrictions. the reason given is to harmonize the actions of exporting states for all goods. it should be noted that the basic problem remains, firstly with regard to subsidies (which also need to be harmonised in order not to create distorted and unfair competition) and secondly with regard to national export finance policies. here again the european union is meddling in the affairs of the states and is once again seeking to restrict the national sovereignty of the member states. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. through this recommendation, it is up to the european parliament to vote in favour of the codification of a text in the legal order of the european union. in the interests of clarity and transparency, it is therefore necessary to make this right more readable for our citizens. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which is part of the process of facilitating community law initiated by the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994; the text is a simple codification of existing texts without any change in their substance. the resolution expresses its opinion on a regulation which establishes the principle that exports to third countries are not subject to any quantitative restrictions, subject to the derogations provided for in the regulation and without prejudice to measures which member states may take in accordance with the treaty. it also lays down measures concerning the procedure for informing and consulting the commission and safeguard measures.
in writing. i am in favour of adopting this text, which is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. there is a refusal to limit quantitatively exports which are subject to the principle of free trade. the aim of this text is to harmonise the practices of the states. there is no possibility for member states to take restrictive measures in a sovereign manner. the commission is therefore abstaining on this text, which does not allow member states to decide on the financial aid they wish to grant to their exports.
mr president, i fully agree with what the previous speaker said. the convention on international child abduction is basically designed to deal with the conflicts of jurisdiction and the conflicts of laws that sometimes arise from the separation of couples. in the end, it is excellent, but what does the european union do about it? this convention is open to ratification by all the states of the world. would the member states no longer have a diplomatic service? would they no longer have a foreign ministry? are they not capable of ratifying these texts themselves? what is the legal basis for the intervention of our parliament today? this is an opinion of the court of justice, which i consider to be completely unfair and which constitutes a constitutional innovation which is extremely important and serious in our eyes.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for gabon must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it protects children of gabonese nationals residing in the european union from possible illegal abductions.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction is intended to deal with conflicts of jurisdiction and conflicts of law that usually arise from separations of couples. these are obviously very sensitive situations and cooperation between states in this area can hardly be over-encouraged. that said, i voted against this text which presents a major problem: the european union is not a state, so its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention is highly questionable. this is a prerogative reserved to states by public international law, and i refuse to vote for a text which implicitly calls it into question. the report explains in its explanatory memorandum that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. the european union therefore has no competence to approve gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this situation usually arises when a couple divorce or separate. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for gabon must not be within the european sphere and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this situation usually arises when a couple divorce or separate. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i formally question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction was established in 1980. all the member states of the european union are signatories to this convention. this private international law legislation imposes a uniform legal basis for the abduction of a child by one of the parents in the event of a bi-national separation. sometimes a parent abducts a child and is given legal custody in their home state. the other parent is then obliged to comply with this decision because of a lack of legal uniformity between the two states of which the parents are nationals. such situations must not happen again. we must ensure that children's rights are applied in the same way all over the world. i voted in favour of gabon's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. i refused to sign in favour of this report for a simple reason: an international convention is a legal norm which must be signed by sovereign states. the european union does not have this legal status and its legitimacy is therefore questionable as regards its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention. it is clear, however, that child abduction is a very serious problem and that it is therefore important that states continue to cooperate actively to prevent these tragedies and to deal with the civilian aspects of them.
in writing. this report proposes to support the accession of the gabonese republic to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this international agreement, ratified by all eu member states, aims to establish a system of cooperation in the field of international child abduction, most often in cases of separation or divorce of binational couples. if the courts of both states concerned are seised, they may declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them may award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he or she is domiciled. the convention thus specifies the jurisdiction of national courts and guarantees a system for the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. it is necessary that this international regime be as broad as possible, especially in view of the fact that the european union has many citizens of gabonese origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union, aims to protect children from international kidnapping by providing a procedure for their speedy return. the vote on this text is an invitation to the council of the european union to ask the member states to accept gabon's accession. the extension of the convention's territorial scope to gabon is a positive sign in the direction of greater protection for children.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for gabon must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i am voting against this text because by becoming a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction, the european union is also giving itself a space for interpretation of this text. let us not be fooled, because with the best intentions of defending the interests of children, nothing is being done - for example - against the spread of the barbaric practice of surrogacy within the union. it is also up to the member states to determine sovereignly who can or cannot accede to the convention, and i again challenge this transfer of competence.
in writing. i voted against this proposal on gabon's accession to the hague convention. this convention is certainly very useful in dealing with conflicts of jurisdiction in cases of child abduction, most often following divorces. however, i question the legitimacy of the european union to intervene in the ratification of this convention between the member states and other states.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for gabon must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, establishes cooperation mechanisms between contracting states to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction, in particular when two courts declare jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another directed attack on the national sovereignty of states. i reject the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for gabon must not fall within the european sphere. that's why i abstained.
in writing. i welcome the accession of gabon to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. it aims to reduce legal conflicts between different national courts in cases of difficult separations of binational couples. in this legal procedure, however, the commission has once again undermined the sovereignty of the member states by seeking to have these accessions recognised on behalf of the union, even though the convention does not recognise international organisations (such as the union) as a signatory party. but i am voting for the protection of children across borders.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for gabon must not fall within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which approves gabon's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a major instrument in the fight against the illegal detention and removal of children as a result of family conflict. in concrete terms, it provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction between courts in the event of a bi-national couple's separation. it also guarantees a system of return in the event of abduction. the more states that sign the convention, the more children's rights will be effectively guaranteed at international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because gabon's accession to the convention is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of gabonese origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from being abducted.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another directed attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for gabon is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the european parliament should assess whether it is appropriate for eu law to recognise gabon's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union and its 28 member states are thus acting as a bloc and applying the convention uniformly when such a dispute arises with gabon. it is important to address such issues as they are family dramas that occur when parents find themselves facing kafkaesque court systems. i am therefore in favour of anything that can improve the dialogue and resolution of family problems between judicial systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which approves gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention strengthens cooperation between states, addresses the problem of differences between legal systems and thus establishes the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows gabon to accede to the hague convention on international child abduction. this multilateral treaty protects children who are abducted outside their place of usual residence. since the opinion of the court of justice of 14 october 2014, the european union has exclusive competence for the acceptance of a new state to the convention. these kidnappings, which are becoming more frequent in cases of divorce between couples of two nationalities, give rise to dramatic situations which require a rapid response from the public authorities. accession to the convention will facilitate cooperation between the european and gabonese judicial authorities in organising the speedy return of abducted children, so that the competent local court can make a decision on the person responsible for the child's custody.
in writing. the european union does not have the legal capacity to impose anything in this area under the 1980 hague convention. the justification for gabon's accession to the convention, which is supposed to be in the interests of the european union, is therefore not valid.
mr president, i did not quite understand what mr hannan said. does he want to take my speech away? does he mind that i'm overreacting? i don't know, and i won't do him the courtesy of asking for more. in any case, this case is absolutely amazing. the international status of the valleys of andorra has been settled for some nine centuries. it is a co-principality between the bishop of urgell, on the catalan side, and the president of the french republic, who succeeds our kings of navarre, themselves heirs of the counts of foix. they are represented by their vineyard. until now, in accordance with custom, the french co-prince has been responsible for the international representation of andorra. i ask again: what is the european union doing here? why was it necessary for the french president, françois hollande, to negotiate with the french co-prince, françois hollande, and decide that this convention would actually apply to the territory of andorra? it remains an institutional mystery.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for the principality of andorra must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it protects the children of andorran nationals residing in the european union from possible illegal abductions.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction is intended to deal with conflicts of jurisdiction and conflicts of law that usually arise from separations of couples. these are obviously very sensitive situations and cooperation between states in this area can hardly be over-encouraged. that said, i voted against this text which presents a major problem: the european union is not a state, so its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention is highly questionable. this is a prerogative reserved to states by public international law, and i refuse to vote for a text which implicitly calls it into question. the report explains in its explanatory memorandum that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. the european union therefore cannot be responsible for approving andorra's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this situation usually arises when a couple divorce or separate. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for andorra must not be a matter for europe and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. the curious legal instrument which we have before us today can lead to strange situations. the president of the french republic, who is the customary international representative of andorra, and whose services would intervene with the french government to ensure that this convention is applied in their relations. that 's curious . none of this is serious. nor is it an accession 'in the interests of the union' to the 1980 hague convention, which does not provide for the accession of regional organisations to that instrument of private international law. this vote is a farce. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction was created in 1980. all the member states of the european union have signed it. the convention provides a uniform legal basis for cases of child abduction by one of the parents in the context of a bi-national separation. it is all too common for a parent to kidnap his or her child and take custody of the child in the country of which the child is a national. this lack of legal consistency prevents the other parent from claiming custody of their child. we can't just decently let that happen. we must all do our utmost to protect children, who are the first victims of these disastrous situations. i voted in favour of andorra's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. i refused to sign in favour of this report for a simple reason: an international convention is a legal norm which must be signed by sovereign states. the european union does not have this legal status and its legitimacy is therefore questionable as regards its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention. it is clear, however, that child abduction is a very serious problem and that it is therefore important that states continue to cooperate actively to prevent these tragedies and to deal with the civilian aspects of them.
in writing. this report proposes to support the accession of the principality of andorra to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this international agreement, ratified by all eu member states, aims to establish a system of cooperation in the field of international child abduction, most often in cases of separation or divorce of binational couples. if the courts of both states concerned are seised, they may declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them may award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he or she is domiciled. the convention thus specifies the jurisdiction of national courts and guarantees a system for the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. it is necessary that this international regime be as broad as possible, especially in view of the fact that the european union has many citizens of andorran origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union, aims to protect children from international kidnapping by providing a procedure for their speedy return. the vote on this text is an invitation to the council of the european union to ask the member states to accept the accession of the principality of andorra. the extension of the convention's territorial scope to andorra is a strong signal for greater protection of children.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for the principality of andorra must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i am voting against this text because by becoming a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction, the european union is also giving itself a space for interpretation of this text. let us not be fooled, for despite the good intentions of defending the interests of children, nothing is being done - for example - against the spread of the barbaric practice of surrogacy within the union. it is also up to the member states to determine sovereignly who can or cannot accede to the convention, and i again challenge this transfer of competence.
in writing. i voted against this proposal for andorra's accession to the hague convention. this convention is certainly very useful in dealing with conflicts of jurisdiction in cases of child abduction, most often following divorces. however, i question the legitimacy of the european union to intervene in the ratification of this convention between the member states and other states.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for andorra must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, establishes cooperation mechanisms between contracting states to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction, in particular when two courts declare jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. i reject the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for andorra must not be in any way within the european sphere. that's why i abstained.
in writing. i welcome the accession of andorra to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. it aims to reduce legal conflicts between different national courts in cases of difficult separations of binational couples. in this legal procedure, however, the commission has once again undermined the sovereignty of the member states by seeking to have these accessions recognised on behalf of the european union, even though the convention does not recognise international organisations (such as the union) as a signatory party. but i vote for the protection of children across borders.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for andorra is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which approves the accession of andorra to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a major instrument in the fight against the illegal detention and removal of children as a result of family conflict. in concrete terms, it provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction between courts in the event of a bi-national couple's separation. it also guarantees a system of return in the event of abduction. the more states that sign the convention, the more children's rights will be effectively guaranteed at international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the accession of andorra to the convention is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of andorran origin on its soil. thus, children linked to this community will be protected from abduction.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for andorra is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the european parliament should assess whether it is appropriate for european union law to recognise andorra's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union and its 28 member states are thus acting as a bloc and applying the convention uniformly when such a dispute arises with andorra. it is important to address such issues as they are family dramas that occur when parents find themselves facing kafkaesque court systems. i am therefore in favour of anything that can improve the dialogue and resolution of family problems between judicial systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which approves the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all the member states of the union. the convention strengthens cooperation between states, addresses the problem of differences between legal systems and thus establishes the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows andorra to accede to the hague convention on international child abduction. this multilateral treaty protects children who are abducted outside their place of usual residence. since the opinion of the court of justice of 14 october 2014, the european union has exclusive competence for the acceptance of a new state to the convention. these kidnappings, which are becoming more frequent in cases of divorce between couples of two nationalities, give rise to dramatic situations which require a rapid response from the public authorities. accession to the convention will facilitate cooperation between the european and andorran judicial authorities in organising the speedy return of abducted children, so that the competent local judge can make a decision on the person responsible for the child's custody.
in writing. the european union does not have the legal capacity to impose anything in this area under the 1980 hague convention. the justification for andorra's accession to the convention, which is supposed to be in the interests of the european union, is therefore invalid.
mr president, i shall continue along this line by demonstrating that the opinion of the court of justice, whose authority can be questioned, has exactly the same authority as a judgment, which produces a considerable constitutional innovation which in reality deprives our states of their freedom in matters of foreign policy. what would have happened if there had been a contradiction, for example if france had deposited the instruments of ratification in the hague and if our parliament had voted against it today? this is an extremely interesting question which, in my view, has not been addressed by the brilliant jurists who make up our committee on constitutional affairs, our legal affairs committee, nor by the council, nor by the commission. this is a contradiction which could prove very serious if other texts were adopted.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for the seychelles must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it protects the children of seychelles nationals residing in the european union from possible illegal abductions.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction is intended to deal with conflicts of jurisdiction and conflicts of law that usually arise from separations of couples. these are obviously very sensitive situations and cooperation between states in this area can hardly be over-encouraged. that said, i voted against this text, which presents a major problem: the european union is not a state, and its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention is therefore highly questionable. this is a prerogative reserved to states by public international law, and i refuse to vote for a text which implicitly calls it into question. the report explains in its explanatory memorandum that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. the european union therefore has no competence to approve the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this situation usually arises when a couple divorce or separate. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for the seychelles must not be a matter for europe and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. the hague convention was established in 1980. this convention deals with the civil aspects of international child abduction. the member states of the european union are all signatories. it was important to create such an institution. indeed, far too often we hear of parents who kidnap a child and obtain custody of the child in their home countries without first consulting the parent who was the victim of the kidnapping. this situation cannot last. the legal systems of the countries must cooperate on this important issue for the protection of children. i voted in favour of seychelles joining the hague convention.
in writing. i refused to sign in favour of this report for a simple reason: an international convention is a legal norm that must be signed by sovereign states. the european union does not have this legal status and its legitimacy is therefore questionable as regards its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention. it is clear, however, that child abduction is a very serious problem and that it is therefore important that states continue to cooperate actively to prevent these tragedies and to deal with the civilian aspects of them.
in writing. this report proposes to support the accession of the republic of seychelles to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this international agreement, ratified by all eu member states, aims to establish a system of cooperation in the field of international child abduction, most often in cases of separation or divorce of binational couples. if the courts of both states concerned are seised, they may declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them may award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he or she is domiciled. the convention thus specifies the jurisdiction of national courts and guarantees a system for the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. it is necessary that this international regime be as broad as possible. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union, aims to protect children from international kidnapping by providing a procedure for their speedy return. the vote on this text is an invitation to the council of the european union to ask the member states to accept the accession of the seychelles. the extension of the territorial scope of the convention to the islands and islets of the seychelles is in line with a fundamental objective of the european union to strengthen the protection of children at international level. i therefore supported the text.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for the seychelles must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i am voting against this text because, by becoming a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction, the european union is also giving itself a space for interpretation of this text. let us not be fooled, for despite the good intentions of defending the interests of children, nothing is being done - for example - against the spread of the barbaric practice of surrogacy within the union. it is also up to the member states to determine sovereignly who can or cannot accede to the convention, and i again challenge this transfer of competence.
in writing. i voted against this proposal for the accession of the seychelles to the hague convention. this convention is certainly very useful in dealing with conflicts of jurisdiction in cases of child abduction, most often following divorces. however, i question the legitimacy of the european union to intervene in the ratification of this convention between the member states and other states.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for the seychelles must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of the seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, establishes cooperation mechanisms between contracting states to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction, in particular when two courts declare jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for seychelles is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i welcome the accession of the seychelles to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. it aims to reduce legal conflicts between different national courts in cases of difficult separations of binational couples. in this legal procedure, however, the commission has once again undermined the sovereignty of the member states by seeking to have these accessions recognised on behalf of the european union, even though the convention does not recognise international organisations (such as the union) as a signatory party. but i vote for the protection of children across borders.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for seychelles is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which approves the accession of the seychelles to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a major instrument in the fight against the illegal detention and removal of children as a result of family conflict. in concrete terms, it provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction between courts in the event of a bi-national couple's separation. it also guarantees a system of return in the event of abduction. the more states that sign the convention, the more children's rights will be effectively guaranteed at international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the accession of the seychelles is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of seychelles origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from being abducted.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for seychelles is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the european parliament should assess whether it is appropriate for the european union to recognise seychelles' accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union and its 28 member states are thus acting as a bloc and applying the convention uniformly when such a dispute arises with the seychelles. it is important to address such issues as they are family dramas that occur when parents find themselves facing kafkaesque court systems. i am therefore in favour of anything that can improve the dialogue and resolution of family problems between judicial systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which approves the accession of seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention strengthens cooperation between states, addresses the problem of differences between legal systems and thus establishes the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows seychelles to accede to the hague convention on international child abduction. this multilateral treaty protects children who are abducted outside their place of usual residence. since the opinion of the court of justice of 14 october 2014, the european union has exclusive competence for the acceptance of a new state to the convention. these kidnappings, which are becoming more frequent in cases of divorce between couples of two nationalities, give rise to dramatic situations which require a rapid response from the public authorities. the accession to the convention will facilitate cooperation between the european and seychelles judicial authorities in organising the prompt return of abducted children, so that the competent local judge can make a decision on the person responsible for the child's custody.
in writing. the european union does not have the legal capacity to impose anything in this area under the 1980 hague convention. the justification for seychelles' accession to the convention, which is supposed to be in the interests of the european union, is therefore invalid.
mr president, i shall now continue my speech. for example, to return to my country, article 55 of the french constitution provides that conventions regularly ratified or approved have, as soon as they are published, a higher authority than domestic laws, even french ones. this is the basis of our international commitments. again, what would have happened if, after france had applied the provisions of its constitution, as is usually the case in political and international life, our parliament had taken a different decision today? does this mean that all member states are now under the authority of the council, the commission or the european parliament and cannot ratify treaties which clearly concern their relations with non-eu countries without the authorization of these supranational bodies? this is again a real capitalis deminutio of our sovereignty, which has gone completely unnoticed by most of our colleagues.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for russia must not be a matter for the community and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it protects the children of russian nationals residing in the european union from possible illegal abductions.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction is intended to deal with conflicts of jurisdiction and conflicts of law that usually arise from separations of couples. these are obviously very sensitive situations and cooperation between states in this area can hardly be over-encouraged. that said, i voted against this text, which presents a major problem: the european union is not a state, and its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention is therefore highly questionable. this is a prerogative reserved to states by public international law, and i refuse to vote for a text which implicitly calls it into question. the report explains in its explanatory memorandum that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. thus, the approval of russia's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction cannot fall within the competence of the european union.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this situation usually arises when a couple divorce or separate. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for russia must not be a matter for europe and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. the hague convention was established in 1980 and deals with the civil aspects of international child abduction. all the member states of the union have ratified it. the convention allows for the settlement of conflicts of jurisdiction where two courts each declare that they have jurisdiction over the custody of children in the context of the separation of a binational couple. every country has to cooperate in the case of child abduction. it's about protecting children. i voted in favour of this resolution approving russia's accession to the hague conventions.
in writing. in an age of increasingly international families, international child abductions are becoming more common. these situations are complex both from a human and a legal point of view. i therefore voted in favour of all the reports proposed by mrs hautala, which seek to extend the scope of the hague convention and to ensure the safety of our children. however, the competent european judicial area cannot escape criticism. although the brussels iia regulation is supposed to guarantee enhanced protection of children on european soil by establishing mutual recognition of judgments on matrimonial matters or on parental responsibility, it appears that several courts in the member states may now have jurisdiction in the same case without being bound by the decision of another court. this problem of recognition of decisions creates legal uncertainty, which directly affects the children and parents concerned in the european territory. would it be desirable, then, that in the context of accepting mrs hautala's reports? the commission undertakes to clarify the detailed rules for the application of the 'brussels iia' regulation.
in writing. i refused to sign in favour of this report for a simple reason: an international convention is a legal norm that must be signed by sovereign states. the european union does not have this legal status and its legitimacy is therefore questionable as regards its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention. it is clear, however, that child abduction is a very serious problem and that it is therefore important that states continue to cooperate actively to prevent these tragedies and to deal with the civilian aspects of them.
in writing. this report proposes to support the european parliament's accession of the russian federation to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this international agreement, ratified by all eu member states, aims to establish a system of cooperation in the field of international child abduction, most often in cases of separation or divorce of binational couples. if the courts of both states concerned are seised, they may declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them may award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he or she is domiciled. the convention thus specifies the jurisdiction of national courts and guarantees a system for the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. it is necessary that this international regime be as broad as possible, especially in view of the fact that the european union has many citizens of russian origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union, aims to protect children from international kidnapping by providing a procedure for their speedy return. the vote on this text is an invitation to the council of the european union to ask the member states to accept the accession of the russian federation. it is important to extend the territorial scope of the convention to our russian neighbour in order to ensure better protection of children against international abduction.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for russia must not be a matter for the community and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i am voting against this text because by becoming a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction, the european union is also giving itself a space for interpretation of this text. let us not be fooled, for despite the good intentions of defending the interests of children, nothing is being done - for example - against the spread of the barbaric practice of surrogacy within the union. it is also up to the member states to determine sovereignly who can or cannot accede to the convention, and i again challenge this transfer of competence.
in writing. i voted against this proposal on russia's accession to the hague convention. this convention is certainly very useful in dealing with conflicts of jurisdiction in cases of child abduction, most often following divorces. however, i question the legitimacy of the european union to intervene in the ratification of this convention between the member states and other states.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for russia must not be a matter for the community and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on russia's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, establishes cooperation mechanisms between contracting states to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction, in particular when two courts declare jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for russia is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted against this draft resolution because it attempts to suggest that the european union is competent to steer the acceptance by member states of the accession of eight countries, including morocco and russia, to the hague convention on the suppression of international child abduction. the convention reserves this acceptance to the states. i therefore do not want to endorse a text which insidiously seeks to strip the states of a competence which is recognised by public international law. i should like to say in passing that i am in favour of this convention, which has the merit of trying to solve very delicate human problems, and which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union.
in writing. i welcome the accession of russia to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. it aims to reduce legal conflicts between different national courts in cases of difficult separations of binational couples. in this legal procedure, however, the commission has once again undermined the sovereignty of the member states by seeking to have these accessions recognised on behalf of the european union, even though the convention does not recognise international organisations (such as the union) as a signatory party. i am voting in favour, in order to recognise this new accession for the benefit of the protection of children across borders.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for russia is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which approves russia's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a major instrument in the fight against the illegal detention and removal of children as a result of family conflict. in concrete terms, it provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction between courts in the event of a bi-national couple's separation. it also guarantees a system of return in the event of abduction. the more states that sign the convention, the more children's rights will be effectively guaranteed at international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the accession of the russian federation is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has close economic ties with russia. this way, children tied to this country will be protected from kidnapping.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for russia is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the european parliament should assess whether it is appropriate for european union law to recognise russia's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union and its 28 member states are thus acting as a bloc and applying the convention uniformly when such a dispute arises with russia. it is important to address such issues as they are family dramas that occur when parents find themselves facing kafkaesque court systems. moreover, in view of the situation, i ask that family situations of this kind not suffer from our conflicting diplomatic relations. i am therefore in favour of anything that can improve the dialogue and resolution of family problems between judicial systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which approves russia's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention strengthens cooperation between states, addresses the problem of differences between legal systems and thus establishes the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows the accession of the russian federation to the hague convention on international child abduction. this multilateral treaty protects children who are abducted outside their place of usual residence. since the opinion of the court of justice of 14 october 2014, the european union has exclusive competence for the acceptance of a new state to the convention. these kidnappings, which are becoming more frequent in cases of divorce between couples of two nationalities, give rise to dramatic situations which require a rapid response from the public authorities. accession to the convention will facilitate cooperation between european and russian judicial authorities to organise the speedy return of abducted children, so that the competent local court can make a decision on the person responsible for the child's custody.
in writing. the european union does not have the legal capacity to impose anything in this area under the 1980 hague convention. the justification for russia's accession to the convention, which is supposed to be in the interests of the european union, is therefore not valid.
mr president, i would like to repeat that. when i was in college, i was taught that the great art of pedagogy is repetition. i am afraid, however, that i will tire most of my colleagues and i prefer to stop here and give up explanations of vote on the other conventions but not on mrs ayala sender's report on motorists' safety.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it protects the children of albanian nationals residing in the european union from possible illegal abductions.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction is intended to deal with conflicts of jurisdiction and conflicts of law that usually arise from separations of couples. these are obviously very sensitive situations and cooperation between states in this area can hardly be over-encouraged. that said, i voted against this text, which presents a major problem: the european union is not a state, and its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention is therefore highly questionable. this is a prerogative reserved to states by public international law, and i refuse to vote for a text which implicitly calls it into question. the report explains in its explanatory memorandum that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. thus, the approval of albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction cannot fall within the competence of the european union.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this situation usually arises when a couple divorce or separate. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for albania must not be a matter for europe and i therefore voted against it. moreover, when we know that albania is a hub for child trafficking at european level, we can only disapprove of this request until these internal problems are resolved.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction was established on 25 october 1980. the member states of the european union have all ratified it. all too often we hear of cases of child abduction by a parent who obtains custody of the child in his/her home country when a binational couple separates. a uniform legal basis for determining the court with jurisdiction in such matters is essential. we must ensure the protection of children who are victims of abduction. i voted in favour of this resolution approving albania's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. i refused to sign in favour of this report for a simple reason: an international convention is a legal norm that must be signed by sovereign states. the european union does not have this legal status and its legitimacy is therefore questionable as regards its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention. it is clear, however, that child abduction is a very serious problem and that it is therefore important that states continue to cooperate actively to prevent these tragedies and to deal with the civilian aspects of them.
in writing. this report proposes to support the accession of the republic of albania to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this international agreement, ratified by all eu member states, aims to establish a system of cooperation in the field of international child abduction, most often in cases of separation or divorce of binational couples. if the courts of both states concerned are seised, they may declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them may award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he or she is domiciled. the convention thus specifies the jurisdiction of national courts and guarantees a system for the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. it is necessary that this international regime be as broad as possible, especially in view of the fact that the european union has many citizens of albanian origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union, aims to protect children from international kidnapping by providing a procedure for their speedy return. the vote on this text is an invitation to the council of the european union to ask the member states to accept the accession of the republic of albania. the extension of the convention's territorial scope to albania is in the right direction to ensure the best possible protection of the child in situations of international abduction.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for albania must not be a matter for the community and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i am voting against this text because by becoming a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction, the european union is also giving itself a space for interpretation of this text. let us not be fooled, for despite the good intentions of defending the interests of children, nothing is being done - for example - against the spread of the barbaric practice of surrogacy within the union. it is also up to the member states to determine sovereignly who can or cannot accede to the convention, and i again challenge this transfer of competence.
in writing. i voted against this proposal on albania's accession to the hague convention. this convention is certainly very useful in dealing with conflicts of jurisdiction in cases of child abduction, most often following divorces. however, i question the legitimacy of the european union to intervene in the ratification of this convention between the member states and other states.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for albania must not be a matter for the community and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of albania to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, establishes cooperation mechanisms between contracting states to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction, in particular when two courts declare jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. i reject the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for albania must not be in any way within the european sphere. that's why i abstained.
in writing. i welcome the accession of albania to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. it aims to reduce legal conflicts between different national courts in cases of difficult separations of binational couples. in this legal procedure, however, the commission has once again undermined the sovereignty of the member states by seeking to have these accessions recognised on behalf of the european union, even though the convention does not recognise international organisations (such as the union) as a signatory party. i vote in favour of this, in order to welcome albania's efforts to suggest ways of using the occupation of kosovo.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for albania is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which approves the accession of albania to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a major instrument in the fight against the illegal detention and removal of children as a result of family conflict. in concrete terms, it provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction between courts in the event of a bi-national couple's separation. it also guarantees a system of return in the event of abduction. the more states that sign the convention, the more children's rights will be effectively guaranteed at international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the accession of albania is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of albanian origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from being abducted.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for albania is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the european parliament should assess whether it is appropriate for eu law to recognise albania's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union and its 28 member states are thus acting as a bloc and applying the convention uniformly when such a dispute arises with albania. it is important to address such issues as they are family dramas that occur when parents find themselves facing kafkaesque court systems. i am therefore in favour of anything that can improve the dialogue and resolution of family problems between judicial systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which approves albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention strengthens cooperation between states, addresses the problem of differences between legal systems and thus establishes the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows albania to accede to the hague convention on international child abduction. this multilateral treaty protects children who are abducted outside their place of usual residence. since the opinion of the court of justice of 14 october 2014, the european union has exclusive competence for the acceptance of a new state to the convention. these kidnappings, which are becoming more frequent in cases of divorce between couples of two nationalities, give rise to dramatic situations which require a rapid response from the public authorities. accession to the convention will facilitate cooperation between european and albanian judicial authorities in organising the speedy return of abducted children, so that the competent local court can make a decision on the person responsible for the child's custody.
in writing. the european union does not have the legal capacity to impose anything in this area under the 1980 hague convention. the justification for albania's accession to the convention, which is supposed to be in the interests of the european union, is therefore invalid.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it protects the children of singaporeans residing in the european union from possible illegal abductions.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction is intended to deal with conflicts of jurisdiction and conflicts of law that usually arise from separations of couples. these are obviously very sensitive situations and cooperation between states in this area can hardly be over-encouraged. that said, i voted against this text which presents a major problem: the european union is not a state, so its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention is highly questionable. this is a prerogative reserved to states by public international law, and i refuse to vote for a text which implicitly calls it into question. the report explains in its explanatory memorandum that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. thus, the approval of singapore's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction cannot fall within the competence of the european union.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this situation usually arises when a couple divorce or separate. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for singapore must not be within the european sphere and i therefore voted against.
in writing. the hague convention was established on 25 october 1980. it deals with the civil aspects of international child abduction. all the member states of the union have ratified the convention. there are too many cases of child abduction by a parent who obtains custody in his/her home country during a bi-national separation. a uniform legal basis for determining the court with jurisdiction in such matters is essential. children's rights must be applied in the same way all over the world. i voted in favour of singapore joining the hague convention.
in writing. i refused to sign in favour of this report for a simple reason: an international convention is a legal norm that must be signed by sovereign states. the european union does not have this legal status and its legitimacy is therefore questionable as regards its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention. it is clear, however, that child abduction is a very serious problem and that it is therefore important that states continue to cooperate actively to prevent these tragedies and to deal with the civilian aspects of them.
in writing. this report proposes to support the accession of the republic of singapore to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this international agreement, ratified by all eu member states, aims to establish a system of cooperation in the field of international child abduction, most often in cases of separation or divorce of binational couples. if the courts of both states concerned are seised, they may declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them may award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he or she is domiciled. the convention thus specifies the jurisdiction of national courts and guarantees a system for the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. it is necessary that this international regime be as broad as possible. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union, aims to protect children from international kidnapping by providing a procedure for their speedy return. the vote on this text is an invitation to the council of the european union to ask the member states to accept singapore's accession. the extension of the convention's territorial scope to that country provides additional protection for children at international level.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for singapore must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i am voting against this text because by becoming a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction, the european union is also giving itself a space for interpretation of this text. let us not be fooled, for despite the good intentions of defending the interests of children, nothing is being done - for example - against the spread of the barbaric practice of surrogacy within the union. it is also up to the member states to determine sovereignly who can or cannot accede to the convention, and i again challenge this transfer of competence.
in writing. i voted against this proposal on singapore's accession to the hague convention. this convention is certainly very useful in dealing with conflicts of jurisdiction in cases of child abduction, most often following divorces. however, i question the legitimacy of the european union to intervene in the ratification of this convention between the member states and other states.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for singapore must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, establishes cooperation mechanisms between contracting states to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction, in particular when two courts declare jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. i reject the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for singapore must not fall within the european sphere. that's why i abstained.
in writing. i welcome the accession of singapore to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. it aims to reduce legal conflicts between different national courts in cases of difficult separations of binational couples. in this legal procedure, however, the commission has once again undermined the sovereignty of the member states by seeking to have these accessions recognised on behalf of the european union, even though the convention does not recognise international organisations (such as the union) as a signatory party. i am voting in favour, in order to recognise this new accession for the benefit of the protection of children across borders.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for singapore is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which approves the accession of singapore to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a major instrument in the fight against the illegal detention and removal of children as a result of family conflict. in concrete terms, it provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction between courts in the event of a bi-national couple's separation. it also guarantees a system of return in the event of abduction. the more states that sign the convention, the more children's rights will be effectively guaranteed at international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because singapore's accession is welcome news, especially given the close economic relations between the european union and singapore. this will protect children linked to this community from being abducted.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for singapore is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the european parliament should assess the appropriateness of the recognition by eu law of singapore's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union and its 28 member states are thus acting as a bloc and applying the convention uniformly when such a dispute arises with singapore. it is important to address such issues as they are family dramas that occur when parents find themselves facing kafkaesque court systems. i am therefore in favour of anything that can improve the dialogue and resolution of family problems between judicial systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which approves singapore's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all eu member states. the convention strengthens cooperation between states, addresses the problem of differences between legal systems and thus establishes the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows singapore to join the hague convention on international child abduction. this multilateral treaty protects children who are abducted outside their place of usual residence. since the opinion of the court of justice of 14 october 2014, the european union has exclusive competence for the acceptance of a new state to the convention. these kidnappings, which are becoming more frequent in cases of divorce between couples of two nationalities, give rise to dramatic situations which require a rapid response from the public authorities. accession to the convention will facilitate cooperation between the european and singaporean judicial authorities in organising the prompt return of abducted children, so that the competent local judge can make a decision on the person responsible for the child's custody.
in writing. the european union does not have the legal capacity to impose anything in this area under the 1980 hague convention. the justification for singapore's accession to the convention, which is supposed to be in the interests of the european union, is therefore not valid.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it protects the children of moroccan nationals residing in the european union from possible illegal abductions.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction is intended to deal with conflicts of jurisdiction and conflicts of law that usually arise from separations of couples. these are obviously very sensitive situations and cooperation between states in this area can hardly be over-encouraged. that said, i voted against this text, which presents a major problem: the european union is not a state, and its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention is therefore highly questionable. this is a prerogative reserved to states by public international law, and i refuse to vote for a text which implicitly calls it into question. the report explains in its explanatory memorandum that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. thus, the approval of morocco's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction cannot fall within the competence of the european union.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this situation usually arises when a couple divorce or separate. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for morocco must not be a matter for europe and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction was created in 1980. all eu member states have signed this convention, which provides a legal basis for cases of parental child abduction. the media have too often reported on cases of child abduction by a parent who has been granted custody in his own country following a separation between a binational couple. the other abducted relative is in a situation where he cannot claim custody. we are faced here with inconsistency between different national judicial systems and a lack of cooperation between states. i voted in favour of morocco's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. i refused to sign in favour of this report for a simple reason: an international convention is a legal norm that must be signed by sovereign states. the european union does not have this legal status and its legitimacy is therefore questionable as regards its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention. it is clear, however, that child abduction is a very serious problem and that it is therefore important that states continue to cooperate actively to prevent these tragedies and to deal with the civilian aspects of them.
in writing. this report proposes to support the accession of the kingdom of morocco to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this international agreement, ratified by all eu member states, aims to establish a system of cooperation in the field of international child abduction, most often in cases of separation or divorce of binational couples. if the courts of both states concerned are seised, they may declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them may award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he or she is domiciled. the convention thus specifies the jurisdiction of national courts and guarantees a system for the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. it is necessary that this international regime be as broad as possible, especially in view of the fact that the european union has many citizens of moroccan origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union, aims to protect children from international kidnapping by providing a procedure for their speedy return. the vote on this text is an invitation to the council of the european union to ask the member states to accept the accession of morocco, the european union's major partner in the mediterranean area. the extension of the territorial scope of the convention to morocco is an effective measure to strengthen our international instruments in the face of international child abduction.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for morocco must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i am voting against this text because by becoming a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction, the european union is also giving itself a space for interpretation of this text. let us not be fooled, for despite the good intentions of defending the interests of children, nothing is being done - for example - against the spread of the barbaric practice of surrogacy within the union. it is also up to the member states to determine sovereignly who can or cannot accede to the convention, and i again challenge this transfer of competence.
in writing. i voted against this proposal on morocco's accession to the hague convention. this convention is certainly very useful in dealing with conflicts of jurisdiction in cases of child abduction, most often following divorces. however, i question the legitimacy of the european union to intervene in the ratification of this convention between the member states and other states.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for morocco must not be within the community's sphere of competence and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of morocco to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, establishes cooperation mechanisms between contracting states to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction, in particular when two courts declare jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another directed attack on the national sovereignty of states. i reject the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for morocco must not fall within the european sphere. that's why i abstained.
in writing. i welcome the accession of morocco to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. it aims to reduce legal conflicts between different national courts in cases of difficult separations of binational couples. in this legal procedure, however, the commission has once again undermined the sovereignty of the member states by seeking to have these accessions recognised on behalf of the european union, even though the convention does not recognise international organisations (such as the union) as a signatory party. i vote in favour of and welcome morocco's action in this area.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for morocco is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which approves morocco's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a major instrument in the fight against the illegal detention and removal of children as a result of family conflict. in concrete terms, it provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction between courts in the event of a bi-national couple's separation. it also guarantees a system of return in the event of abduction. the more states that sign the convention, the more children's rights will be effectively guaranteed at international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because morocco's accession to the convention is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of moroccan origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from being abducted.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for morocco is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the european parliament should assess the appropriateness of the recognition by european union law of morocco's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union and its 28 member states are thus acting as a bloc and applying the convention uniformly when such a dispute arises with morocco. it is important to address such issues as they are family dramas that occur when parents find themselves facing kafkaesque court systems. i am therefore in favour of anything that can improve the dialogue and resolution of family problems between judicial systems.
in writing. i supported our position on morocco's accession to the hague convention on international child abduction. i am also pleased that seven other countries have joined the convention: gabon, andorra, the seychelles, the russian federation, albania, singapore and armenia. this reference text is a key legal instrument in cases of international child abduction, for example when parents from different countries are separated. these cases always involve drama, placing children and parents in complex situations with strong emotional elements. the text provides the contracting states with a clear legal framework and a system of cooperation with a procedure for the return of the abducted child to the country of residence. while all the member states of the european union have ratified the convention, the accession of third countries is crucial in order to ensure that children who are victims of cross-border abduction are always better protected. as regards my country, i am thinking in particular of my many moroccan compatriots.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which approves morocco's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention strengthens cooperation between states, addresses the problem of differences between legal systems and thus establishes the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows morocco to accede to the hague convention on international child abduction. this multilateral treaty protects children who are abducted outside their place of usual residence. since the opinion of the court of justice of 14 october 2014, the european union has exclusive competence for the acceptance of a new state to the convention. these kidnappings, which are becoming more frequent in cases of divorce between couples of two nationalities, give rise to dramatic situations which require a rapid response from the public authorities. accession to the convention will facilitate cooperation between the european and moroccan judicial authorities in organising the speedy return of abducted children, so that the competent local court can make a decision on the person responsible for the child's custody.
in writing. the european union does not have the legal capacity to impose anything in this area under the 1980 hague convention. the justification for morocco's accession to the convention, which is supposed to be in the interests of the european union, is therefore not valid.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it protects the children of armenian nationals residing on european union soil from possible illegal abductions.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction is intended to deal with conflicts of jurisdiction and conflicts of law that usually arise from separations of couples. these are obviously very sensitive situations and cooperation between states in this area can hardly be over-encouraged. that said, i voted against this text, which presents a major problem: the european union is not a state, and its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention is therefore highly questionable. this is a prerogative reserved to states by public international law, and i refuse to vote for a text which implicitly calls it into question. the report explains in its explanatory memorandum that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. thus, the approval of the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction cannot fall within the competence of the european union.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this situation usually arises when a couple divorce or separate. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for armenia must not be a matter for europe and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction was established in 1980. all the member states of the union have ratified it. the media have too often reported on cases of child abduction by a parent who has been granted custody of a child in his or her own country following a separation of a binational couple. the other abducted relative is in a situation where he is legally unable to claim custody. we are faced with legal inconsistency and a lack of cooperation between states. i voted in favour of armenia's accession to the hague convention.
in writing. i refused to sign in favour of this report for a simple reason: an international convention is a legal norm that must be signed by sovereign states. the european union does not have this legal status and its legitimacy is therefore questionable as regards its legal capacity to become a party to the hague convention. it is clear, however, that child abduction is a very serious problem and that it is therefore important that states continue to cooperate actively to prevent these tragedies and to deal with the civilian aspects of them.
in writing. this report proposes to support the accession of the republic of armenia to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this international agreement, ratified by all eu member states, aims to establish a system of cooperation in the field of international child abduction, most often in cases of separation or divorce of binational couples. if the courts of both states concerned are seised, they may declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them may award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which he or she is domiciled. the convention thus specifies the jurisdiction of national courts and guarantees a system for the immediate return of the child who has been abducted. it is necessary that this international regime be as broad as possible, especially in view of the fact that the european union has many citizens of armenian origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from illegal abductions. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the hague convention of 25 october 1980, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union, aims to protect children from international kidnapping by providing a procedure for their speedy return. the vote on this text is an invitation to the council of the european union to ask the member states to accept the accession of armenia. the extension of the convention's territorial scope to this country is a positive sign towards greater protection for children who are victims of abduction, which i welcome.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for armenia must not be a matter for the community and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i am voting against this text because by becoming a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction, the european union is also giving itself a space for interpretation of this text. let us not be fooled, for despite the good intentions of defending the interests of children, nothing is being done - for example - against the spread of the barbaric practice of surrogacy within the union. it is also up to the member states to determine sovereignly who can or cannot accede to the convention, and i again challenge this transfer of competence.
in writing. i voted against this proposal on the accession of armenia to the hague convention. this convention is certainly very useful in dealing with conflicts of jurisdiction in cases of child abduction, most often following divorces. however, i question the legitimacy of the european union to intervene in the ratification of this convention between the member states and other states.
in writing. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. the explanatory memorandum to the report states that 'the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states'. like my colleagues from the national front in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i question the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for armenia must not be a matter for the community and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. this convention, ratified by all eu member states, establishes cooperation mechanisms between contracting states to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction, in particular when two courts declare jurisdiction over child custody in the context of the separation of a binational couple. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. i reject the legal capacity of the european union to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for armenia must not fall within the european sphere. that's why i abstained.
in writing. i welcome the accession of armenia to the international convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. it aims to reduce legal conflicts between different national courts in cases of difficult separations of binational couples. in this legal procedure, however, the commission has once again undermined the sovereignty of the member states by seeking to have these accessions recognised on behalf of the european union, even though the convention does not recognise international organisations (such as the union) as a signatory party. i am voting in favour, in order to recognise this new accession for the benefit of the protection of children across borders.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for armenia is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which approves the accession of armenia to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention is a major instrument in the fight against the illegal detention and removal of children as a result of family conflict. in concrete terms, it provides for cooperation mechanisms to resolve conflicts of jurisdiction between courts in the event of a bi-national couple's separation. it also guarantees a system of return in the event of abduction. the more states that sign the convention, the more children's rights will be effectively guaranteed at international level.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because armenia's accession to the convention is welcome news, especially given the fact that the european union has many citizens of armenian origin on its soil. this will protect children linked to this community from being abducted.
in writing. the convention provides a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is the case, for example, when a couple separates or divorces. the report's explanatory statement, however, cynically explains that 'the major problem is the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states'. another attack on the national sovereignty of states. that is why, like my frontist colleagues in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i reject the european union's legal capacity to become a party to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of child abduction. this approval for armenia is not in any way within the european sphere. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the european parliament should assess whether it is appropriate for european union law to recognise armenia's accession to the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union and its 28 member states are thus acting as a bloc and applying the convention uniformly when such a dispute arises with armenia. it is important to address such issues as they are family dramas that occur when parents find themselves facing kafkaesque court systems. i am therefore in favour of anything that can improve the dialogue and resolution of family problems between judicial systems.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which approves the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention strengthens cooperation between states, addresses the problem of differences between legal systems and thus establishes the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which allows armenia to accede to the hague convention on international child abduction. this multilateral treaty protects children who are abducted outside their place of usual residence. since the opinion of the court of justice of 14 october 2014, the european union has exclusive competence for the acceptance of a new state to the convention. these kidnappings, which are becoming more frequent in cases of divorce between couples of two nationalities, give rise to dramatic situations which require a rapid response from the public authorities. accession to the convention will facilitate cooperation between european and armenian judicial authorities in organising the speedy return of abducted children, so that the competent local judge can make a decision on the person responsible for the child's custody.
in writing. the european union does not have the legal capacity to impose anything in this area under the 1980 hague convention. the justification for armenia's accession to the convention, which is supposed to be in the interests of the european union, is therefore invalid.
in writing. this proposal recalls the rules for the eligibility and exercise of the mandate of member of the european parliament in the interests of transparency and compliance with the rules aimed at eliminating conflicts of interest. in paragraph 4 it expresses a negative opinion on the electoral law and the rules of eligibility of certain member states. the exercise of democracy can only be achieved within the framework of a nation state. the rules governing the right to vote and to stand as a candidate are also a matter for the states and cannot be contradicted by the principle of free movement as advanced in the proposal. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. this report proposes to declare valid the mandate of members of the european parliament whose election has been notified by the competent national authorities. however, other proposals in the report do not seem acceptable to me, namely: - the invitation to the member states to ensure that the registration formalities for citizens of other member states participating in european elections as voters or candidates are simplified; - the non-application of the loss of the right to vote in european elections to european citizens who have lived in another country. these principles, which imply european citizenship, prevented me from voting in favour of this text and i abstained.
in writing. this report proposes that the mandate of members of the european parliament whose election has been notified by the member states be declared valid by the european parliament. the list of members is annexed, but the proposal also calls for simplification of voting for citizens of other member states of the european union in the european elections, implying european citizenship. in addition, it is required that the loss of the right to vote should not apply to european elections if european citizens have lived in another country. i therefore abstained on principle on this text.
in writing. this report proposes to declare the mandate of the members of the european parliament whose election has been notified by the member states as being in accordance with the treaty. the list of members is annexed, but the proposal also requires that voting be simplified for citizens of other eu member states in the european elections, which clearly implies the existence of european citizenship. in addition, it is required that the loss of the right to vote does not apply to european elections if "european citizens" have lived in another country. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. the validity of members' mandates is checked at each new parliamentary term on the basis of data provided by members. the european parliament must be as transparent as possible to the citizens. it is the duty of members to demonstrate the compatibility of their mandate with their other activities. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. a balanced position was necessary for this text and that is why i chose to abstain. on the one hand, it is crucial that the elected representatives of the european institutions - whose legitimacy is already severely undermined, especially with the suspicions that mr juncker facilitated the tax exile - that the elected representatives of the people present in the european parliament are irreproachable. however, once again the european union is overstepping its powers and seeking to encroach on those of the member states. the house also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected. this is a further attack on the sovereignty of the member states and as a patriot i could not vote for this text.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to declare valid, in application of the statute for members of the european parliament and subject to any decisions of the competent authorities of the member states in which the election results have been contested, the mandate of the members elected to the european parliament in the elections of may last. i have voted in favour of this report, since no objections or incompatibilities have been identified so far.
in writing. the proposal put to the vote recalls the rules for the eligibility and exercise of the mandate of member of the european parliament in the interests of transparency and compliance with the rules aimed at eliminating conflicts of interest. however, paragraph 4 of the proposal expresses a negative opinion on the electoral law and the rules of eligibility of certain member states. the exercise of true and most effective democracy can only be achieved within the framework of a nation state. the rules governing the right to vote and to stand as a candidate are also a matter for this sovereign state and cannot be contradicted by the principle of free movement as advanced in the proposal. for these reasons i abstained from voting.
in writing. the proposal put to the vote recalls the rules for the eligibility and exercise of the mandate of member of the european parliament in the interests of transparency and compliance with the rules aimed at eliminating conflicts of interest. however, paragraph 4 of the proposal expresses a negative opinion on the electoral law and the rules of eligibility of certain member states. the exercise of true and most effective democracy can only be achieved within the framework of a nation state. the rules governing the right to vote and to stand as a candidate are also a matter for this sovereign state and cannot be contradicted by the principle of free movement as advanced in the proposal. for these reasons i abstained from voting.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the verification of the credentials and the validity of the mandate of each member of the european parliament. as no incompatibilities were found, this report confirms the validity of the election of all members.
in writing. this report proposes that the mandate of members of the european parliament whose election has been notified by the member states be validated by the european parliament. the list of members is attached. however, it should be noted that it is also specified in this text that a simplification of voting for citizens of other member states of the european union for the european elections should be encouraged, implying the notion of 'european citizenship'. in addition, it is required that the loss of the right to vote should not be applied to european elections in the case of european citizens who have lived in another country. as a matter of principle, i decided to abstain on this text.
in writing. in accordance with article 12 of the 1976 act, the european parliament checks the credentials of its members. to this end, it shall take note of the results officially proclaimed by the member states and decide on any objections which may be raised. this report, having found no irregularities, declares the list of deputies of the 8th legislature valid. i vote for it.
in writing. this report proposes that the mandate of members of the european parliament whose election has been notified by the member states be validated by the european parliament. the list of members is attached. however, it should be noted that it is also specified in this text that a simplification of voting for citizens of other member states of the european union for the european elections should be encouraged, implying the notion of 'european citizenship'. in addition, it is required that the loss of the right to vote should not be applied to european elections in the case of european citizens who have lived in another country. as a matter of principle, i decided to abstain on this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which verifies the validity of the mandate of each of the 751 meps (no incompatibility of functions, no appeals). this report concluded that the mandate of all members of the european parliament was valid. it called on the member states to simplify the procedures for registering on the electoral rolls so that all european citizens could effectively exercise their right to vote in european elections, irrespective of their member state of residence.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the committee on legal affairs is responsible for the verification of the credentials of members and because this report deals with the results of the direct elections to the european parliament held from 22 to 25 may 2014 and is based on the official communications by all member states of the full results of the elections.
in writing. this report proposes that the mandate of members of the european parliament whose election has been notified by the member states be validated by the european parliament. the list of members is attached. however, it should be noted that it is also specified in this text that simplification of voting for citizens of other member states of the european union for the european elections should be encouraged, implying the notion of 'european citizenship'. in addition, it is required that the loss of the right to vote should not be applied to european elections in the case of european citizens who have lived in another country. as a matter of principle, i decided to abstain on this text.
in writing. the last european elections were marred by two types of irregularity. on the one hand, some member states have failed to report the names of the alternates to the european elections and on the other hand, some citizens have been unable to vote in these elections, or at least have had difficulties in doing so, because of their nationality. i am, of course, committed to democratic values and to the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in such elections on the basis of one's place of residence and not on the basis of one's nationality, so i voted in favour.
in writing. as a democratic institution and directly elected by the european citizens, the european parliament has a duty to ensure the integrity of european elections. i supported this report, which recalls that no objections or incompatibilities have been found to date, thus concluding that the european elections of 25 may were valid. the text also stresses the importance of transparency and respect for electoral rules.
mr president, with all the repressive measures against motorists, speeding will now be punished more severely than burning another person's car, as is quite commonly done, for example, in this city of strasbourg on the occasion of the new year. the paradox in the ayala sender report is that the rapporteur points to the causes of the increase in the number of victims. i quote: "the number seems to be rising again, however, and this is due to a number of factors". what are these factors? the ageing of the car fleet, drastic cuts in infrastructure maintenance expenditure and a lack of funding for infrastructure and innovation that could improve road safety. in other words, there is no mention at any time of speeding, which is clearly the basis of the text and the proposed system, as one of the causes of the increase in the number of victims. we can reduce the speed to 20 miles an hour, like here at the exit of parliament. but why not 20 km/h, 10 km/h, 5 km/h? it'll always be safer, and there'll always be fewer victims. that's the stupid logic we give in today.
in writing. the original directive of 25 october 2011 was annulled on 6 may 2014 by the court of justice of the european union for lack of a legal basis. this proposal takes over the same approach but on a new legal basis. the aim is to oblige member states to forward all road traffic offences committed on their territory to the member state of the driver. i think it is better to remain in interstate cooperation on road safety and not to subject member states to additional obligations and i would like to limit the application of the directive to the most serious offences, the excessive penalisation of the most minor offences being more akin to a persecution of motorists. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is an essential step in the fight against the most serious road traffic offences and road deaths, wherever they occur on the territory of the european union.
in writing. the report aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences, where those offences have been committed in a member state other than the one in which the vehicle in question was registered. the member states would thus be obliged to forward traffic offences committed on their territory to the member state of origin of the driver. the declared intention is to apply 'sanctions for road traffic offences committed in the union which seriously threaten road safety'. this measure may result in unnecessary prosecution of drivers who commit minor offences, without really tackling the most serious cases of road violence. i am thinking in particular of criminals who use stolen cars or drug traffickers who use the go-fast technique, often without a driving licence or identity papers. while i support in principle the sanctions against drivers who take advantage of the current system to commit offences, i am more than cautious about the effectiveness of the measures proposed here: i therefore voted against.
in writing. this report and motion for a resolution is identical to directive 2011/82/eu which was annulled by the court of justice and is represented here by amending the legal basis. the proposal for a directive aims to facilitate the crossborder exchange of information on road safety offences committed in a member state other than the one in which the vehicle in question was registered. however, three countries will be allowed to delay the implementation of this proposal: the united kingdom, denmark and ireland. in principle, if it is necessary to control foreign drivers who take advantage of the current system without data exchange to commit offences, the question of data protection at european level must be addressed, but also the question of road policy. the commission is only moving towards systematic repression of motorists (it is true that radar and other fines bring considerable revenues to the states), but nothing is being done in the field of road infrastructure or the development of public transport, especially in rural areas, to provide an alternative to motorists. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against this proposal for crossborder exchange of information on road safety for two main reasons: firstly, the proposal's main purpose, from the outset, is to facilitate the repression of speeding detected by automatic radar equipment. the authors of the proposal are therefore motivated not so much by the safety of motorists as by a spirit of profit. on the other hand, this provision technically requires disclosure of personal data to foreign states. such exchanges of data between states, international organisations and even private companies are likely to increase. justified when it comes to combating terrorism or illicit trafficking, these measures become dangerous when they end up affecting all citizens. i, for one, will not endorse this orwellian drift of the european union.
in writing. this report and the motion for a resolution are identical to directive 2011/82/eu which was annulled by the court of justice and are presented with a simple change in its legal basis. the proposal for a directive therefore aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences committed in a member state other than the one in which the vehicle in question was registered. however, three countries are authorised to delay the implementation of this proposal: the united kingdom, denmark and ireland. if it is necessary for foreign drivers to take advantage of the current system to commit offences, then the question of data protection at european level and road safety policy must be addressed. the commission seems to be advocating only systematic repression of motorists, without proposing anything to strengthen road infrastructure. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of legislation to end impunity for road traffic offences committed by european motorists. the new directive will enable member states to exchange registration files to trace the owner of a vehicle. i voted in favour of this directive which will bring our judicial and police systems together to create a coherent single market.
in writing. with this report, the european parliament wants all motorists to be prosecuted in the same way. the principle of equality which guided the drafting of this text may at first sight be considered to be a good one, but what is hidden behind the commission's text is the possibility for the european union to sanction all motorists, instead of the member states. the report explains in the explanatory memorandum that 'parliament has proposed to strengthen the system by making it possible not only to notify infringements but also to impose penalties, as is the case when a resident driver commits an infringement in his own country'. understanding: the european union wants to centralize the means of imposing, or even prosecuting, motorists in the member states, to the detriment of national peculiarities and legislation i therefore could not vote against this report. i 'm not .
in writing. the aim of this report is to ensure a high level of protection for all road users in the union while facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences. it puts an end to a system with obvious shortcomings, since it tolerated the impunity of european citizens committing road traffic offences when passing through other member states. at present, about 21% of the traffic offences detected in france by speed and red light radar are committed by drivers of vehicles registered abroad, or about 4 million infringement messages transmitted by radar each year. considering that it is necessary for reasons of road safety and equal treatment of road users to punish drivers of vehicles registered abroad in the same way as domestic drivers, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the directive on the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences, adopted in 2011, was subsequently invalidated by the court of justice of the european union. i am pleased to see that the amendments resulting from the court's judgment have been swiftly taken into account by the european commission so that this directive can continue to apply in a sustainable way. in practical terms, this directive will make it possible to punish a driver for an offence committed while driving in another member state. the dissuasive effect of the checks at work is thus reinforced.
in writing. reducing the number of road fatalities is an objective which should be shared by all member states. road safety is not just a matter of subsidiarity. it requires a collective awareness to ensure the same protection for all european drivers throughout the european union. it is in this spirit that the european parliament has just adopted its position on the directive on the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences. drivers who commit road traffic offences (excessive speed, crossing a red light, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, driving without a seat belt, using a mobile phone while driving, using prohibited lanes, not wearing a helmet) in another country will not go unpunished. in france today, 21% of the traffic offences detected by speed and red light radar are committed by drivers of vehicles registered abroad, or about 4 million of the infringement messages transmitted by the radar.
in writing. this crossborder legislation allows for prosecution across national borders and the recovery of fines for offences committed in another country. this new text, which the eu member states will be obliged to incorporate into their legislation, replaces the 2011 directive; this one, based on the wrong legal basis, was cancelled in the spring of 2014. this is a step forward because now data protection must be taken into account, and denmark, ireland and the united kingdom will also be obliged to apply it.
in writing. the original directive of 25 october 2011 was annulled on 6 may 2014 by the court of justice of the european union for lack of a legal basis. this proposal takes over the same approach but on a new legal basis. the aim is to oblige member states to send all road traffic offences committed on their territory to the driver's country of origin. i think it is better to remain in interstate cooperation on road safety and not to subject member states to additional obligations and i would like to limit the application of the directive to the most serious offences, the excessive penalisation of the most minor offences being more akin to a persecution of motorists. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. we could have voted for this text if the common sense amendments tabled by my colleague marie-christine arnautu had been accepted. these amendments aimed to ensure that exchanges were based on cooperation between states, that they only concerned serious crime and that the ngos concerned were involved. dogmatism trumps reason. i am against this text.
in writing. there is currently a strong feeling of impunity among drivers on the roads of other member states. i come from a french border region in the heart of europe, at the crossroads between germany, luxembourg and belgium, and i see drivers who do not live in france driving with a strong sense of impunity on our roads every day. as trade becomes more dense and europeans more mobile, the penalties for infringements do not apply in the same way everywhere, given the different laws. this is contrary to the interests of european citizens who cross their national borders every day to go to work and of the millions who take the road every year to spend their holidays in another member state, for example. moreover, until we have harmonized penalties throughout the european territory, we cannot significantly improve road safety. i therefore voted resolutely in favour of this european text, which represents a real and concrete step forward for europeans.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive to ensure a high level of protection for all road users in the european union. this protection will be achieved by facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences committed in a member state other than the one in which the vehicle in question was registered. it is clear that, because of the freedom of movement within the european union, we must ensure a more uniform application of the safety rules determined by each of the member states in which we travel. it is a common sense measure to want to end the anonymity of non-resident drivers and to ensure that any traffic offences they may commit do not go unpunished.
in writing. i supported the adoption of new legislation which will soon allow for the identification of persons who commit offences in other european states than their own. in concrete terms, this text provides for mutual access to registration data, which allow the identification of vehicle owners in the event of an infringement committed in another member state, and thus the sending of tickets abroad. i hope that this legislation will deter potential offenders from dangerous driving practices and thus reduce road accidents. it also aims to eliminate discrimination between motorists in respect of compliance with rules which must apply to all. i regret, however, that we have not been able to go further to force the insensitive parties to actually pay these fines, but this will be the next step on which we will have to decide after the evaluation of this text scheduled for 2016.
in writing. the original directive of 25 october 2011 was annulled on 6 may 2014 by the court of justice of the european union for lack of a legal basis. this proposal takes over the same approach but on a new legal basis. the aim is to oblige member states to pass on all road traffic offences committed on their territory to the country of origin of the driver. i think it is better to remain in interstate cooperation on road safety and not to subject member states to additional obligations and i would like to limit the application of the directive to the most serious offences, the excessive penalisation of the most minor offences being more akin to a persecution of motorists. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this report is identical to directive 2011/82/eu which was annulled by the court of justice. the text before us here therefore alters the legal basis. the proposal for a directive aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences committed in a member state other than that in which the vehicle in question was registered. it should be noted that three countries will already have permission to delay the implementation of this proposal: the united kingdom, denmark and ireland. in principle, while it is necessary that foreign drivers who take advantage of the current system without exchanging data can be prosecuted when they commit offences, the question of data protection at european level must nevertheless be raised. the road safety policy must also be reviewed. the commission is only moving towards a policy of systematic repression of motorists (it is true that radar and other fines bring considerable revenues to the states) while the question of road infrastructure or the development of public transport - especially in rural areas to provide an alternative to motorists - is avoided. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i am voting against this report which aims to oblige member states to report all road traffic offences committed on the territory of the member state of origin of the driver who committed those offences. i am opposed to any decision which would result in the weakening of the sovereignty of a member state, and i think it would be more appropriate to strengthen interstate cooperation without adding any new obligations. moreover, it does not appear necessary to include infractions which are not of a serious nature in this system. the penalising tendency is excessive in these specific cases. it is also regrettable that motorists' associations are not included in the consultation mechanism. they play a major role in information and could have been serious interlocutors, while motorists feel that they are increasingly under surveillance.
in writing. directive 2011/82/eu on facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences contributes to the european objective of halving the number of road fatalities and reducing the number of injuries by 40% by 2020. the proposal aims to extend the territorial scope of the directive to the three member states which had not yet done so (denmark, the united kingdom and ireland). the report also proposes the adoption of a new legal basis (transport safety) which is more appropriate for this directive. i'm voting yes, for the sake of road safety.
in writing. this report is identical to directive 2011/82/eu which was annulled by the court of justice. the text before us here therefore alters the legal basis. the proposal for a directive aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences committed in a member state other than that in which the vehicle in question was registered. it should be noted that three countries will have permission to delay the implementation of this proposal: the united kingdom, denmark and ireland. in principle, while it is necessary that foreign drivers who take advantage of the current system without exchanging data can be prosecuted when they commit offences, the question of data protection at european level must nevertheless be raised. the road safety policy must also be reviewed. the commission is only moving towards a policy of systematic repression of motorists (it is true that radar and other fines bring considerable revenues to the states) while the question of road infrastructure or the development of public transport - especially in rural areas to provide an alternative to motorists - is avoided. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which promotes the crossborder exchange of information on the most serious road safety offences: drunk driving, driving under the influence of drugs, failure to wear a seatbelt, etc. the text will make it possible, while respecting fundamental freedoms and the protection of personal data, to make the sanction more systematic for drivers who commit serious offences in a member state other than that in which their vehicle is registered. the aim is to improve the protection of all european road users.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on facilitating the crossborder exchange of information on road safety offences. this proposal for a directive is a step forward for the protection of road users in the european union, as it promotes exchanges between the member states' traffic and road safety authorities. for example, when an individual commits an offence outside the state in which his vehicle is registered, his data is communicated to the responsible authorities. the directive, which will ensure equal treatment for european drivers, will also be applied in the united kingdom, ireland and denmark. harmonisation of information exchange is necessary to ensure the safety of users of european road networks.
in writing. i voted for this report because it allows the member states' traffic and road safety authorities to request the transmission of the data of the owner of a vehicle registered outside the member state in which it is used, if the owner has committed an offence considered to be very dangerous, in order to be able to notify the individual of the offence committed.
in writing. this report is identical to directive 2011/82/eu which was annulled by the court of justice. the text before us here therefore alters the legal basis. the proposal for a directive aims to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences committed in a member state other than that in which the vehicle in question was registered. it should be noted that three countries will have permission to delay the implementation of this proposal: the united kingdom, denmark and ireland. in principle, while it is necessary that foreign drivers who take advantage of the current system, without exchanging data, can be prosecuted when they commit offences, the question of data protection at european level must nevertheless arise. the road safety policy must also be reviewed. the commission is only moving towards a policy of systematic repression of motorists (it is true that radar and other fines bring considerable revenues to the states) while the question of road infrastructure or the development of public transport - especially in rural areas to provide an alternative to motorists - is avoided. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i am a driver myself and i understand that some may not like the approval of cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences, but we must remember that this is also a matter of life and health. statistics clearly show that the current 'impunity' of drivers for offenses abroad has led to more safety violations outside the country where the vehicle is registered than in the home country. however, those who break the rules, including traffic rules, are to be held accountable according to the standards of the place where they are. for this reason, this standard deserves support.
in writing. the increase in border crossings in the european union has revealed the inability of police authorities to enforce traffic sanctions, as they are unable to locate european motorists. the road safety requirement requires a greater capacity for cooperation by the national authorities and i therefore welcome an effective mechanism to finally deal with this issue.
in writing. the european exchange of information on the most serious traffic offences is an essential element in the fight against road crime in europe. that is why i support this directive, which prevents us from going back to the time when these offences committed by motorists from other member states went unpunished. we had already adopted a directive to this effect in 2011, but under pressure from the council, police cooperation was chosen as the legal basis instead of road safety. the united kingdom, ireland and denmark had thus taken advantage of an opt-out clause to exempt themselves. in may 2014, the court of justice of the european union logically invalidated the directive while giving us a one-year deadline to adopt a new legal basis. that is what we are doing today, despite the irresponsibility of some members who are following an ideology when it comes to saving lives. in europe, nearly 30 000 people, including over 3 000 in france, die on the roads every year. at a time when road violence is on the rise again in our country, it is abnormal not to support this measure.
in writing. in this new directive, cooperation between member states is strengthened with a stricter enforcement obligation for recalcitrant countries such as the united kingdom, ireland and denmark. in addition, this new version takes into account the issue of the protection of personal data by building on directive 95/46/ec. this text is a breakthrough which marks a return to the issue of road safety at european level. it is worth noting that 73 europeans die every day on european roads and 250,000 are seriously injured every year. in france, the number of road deaths increased in 2014, the first time in 12 years. europe has a key role to play in addressing this scourge. cooperation on sanctions against all drivers who commit offences with impunity, provided they are committed in another country, is a first step. this demonstrates a desire to apply sanctions consistently. we regret that the commission does not go further by proposing harmonisation of legislation, particularly in the field of speed limits and alcohol consumption, which remain the main causes of accidents.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the directive facilitating the exchange of information on road traffic offences. the aim of the vote is to extend to the uk, ireland and denmark a major 2011 directive ending the anonymity of drivers who commit road traffic offences outside their member state of residence. following the court's judgment, a revised legal basis and clearer data protection provisions, we will avoid, through the sharing of vehicle registration data, that offences go unpunished on the grounds that they were committed 'abroad': within two years, offenders will be able to receive their fines at home, regardless of the eu country where the offence occurred. in my country, the stakes of this text are high: more than 20% of the road traffic offences detected by speed and red light radar are committed by drivers of vehicles registered outside france. i don't know anybody who likes to get a "p.o". but this is about road safety, equal treatment of road users and serious offences for which national exceptions or impunity were certainly not a good signal.
in writing. i supported this text which concerns an important aspect of the freedom of movement of european citizens and their safety on the road. a road traffic offence committed in a member state other than the one in which the offending vehicle is registered is subject to penalties. the transport policy of the european union must maintain a high level of protection for all road users and must also be harmonised in its application. this requires a consistent and uniform application of penalties for infringements committed on european roads.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive, which makes it possible to ensure that drivers in the european union do not go unpunished for traffic offences. in france, 21 per cent of all traffic offences involving speeding or crossing red lights are committed by foreign-registered drivers. the text allows the exchange of registration files between european countries in order to locate the owner of the car in infringement. the european police are involved in such cases as speeding, crossing red lights, driving under the influence of drugs, failure to wear a motorcycle helmet, the illicit use of a mobile phone and driving on a prohibited road. this directive had already entered into force at the end of 2013, but due to legal problems, its form had to be revised. the adoption of the new text today puts an end to legal uncertainty and will promote a safer road, particularly in border areas.
in writing. the purpose of the report is to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety offences by requiring member states to transmit road traffic offences committed on their territory to the member state of origin of the driver. because of the impossibility of integrating motorists' associations into the process and of limiting the application of the directive to the most serious offences, thus resulting in excessive penalties for the most minor offences, i shall vote against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement with senegal, considering that anything that can promote our businesses and production should be encouraged in this period of crisis. this agreement favours french and spanish fishermen. this sector has been particularly affected by globalisation with the complicity of the european union. it seems only right to give back to the people at least some of what they have lost. in addition, as senegalese waters are not exploited or are exploited too little, the impact of fishing activity is negligible. small producers, however, remain at the forefront of the giants of globalisation and the ttip currently being negotiated by the commission is likely to reach them and bring them to an end.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because this agreement will revitalise cooperation between the union and the republic of senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in senegal's fishing zones, in the interests of both parties.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which aims to allow eu vessels to fish in senegalese waters. the commission has already proposed that the fishing fleet be increased to 38 french and spanish vessels, which will be able to catch 14 000 tonnes of tuna and 2 000 tonnes of hake per year. in return, we will invest €750,000 a year in the development of senegal's port infrastructure. it is therefore an agreement that will benefit both the eu and senegal, while respecting the principle of 'sustainable fisheries'. the rapporteur of the draft resolution of 21 november 2014, norica nicolai, said that the cod stocks in senegalese waters were not being exploited optimally, so that 'the demersal species could be increased ... in the framework of a future agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal, without affecting the state of the resources too much'.
in writing. this eu-senegal sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is to replace the previous agreement of 1981. it concerns french and spanish boats that work in complete transparency and with financial counterparts to finance local infrastructure even as the country suffers unfair competition from "pirate boats" that illegally fish in senegalese waters. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. the protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european union and senegal has been renegotiated by the european commission for a period of five years. under the agreement, three categories of vessels will be allowed to fish in senegalese waters: 28 tuna seiners, 8 longliners and 2 spanish trawlers. the protocol contains clauses on the suspension and denunciation of fishing activities in the event of violations of human rights or commitments to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i voted in favour of this report approving the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. i wanted to vote in favour of this text, which offers great prospects for our fishermen. the agreement gives 28 tuna vessels, 8 reels and 2 trawlers the possibility of fishing up to 14 000 tonnes of tuna and 2000 tonnes of black hake. this agreement is therefore in favour of the french fishing industry, and moreover with senegal, a country with which france continues to have close relations because of their common history. senegal will also benefit from this agreement, as it will receive eur 1 808 000 for these fishing authorizations for the first year, including eur 750 000 per year for the development of senegal's sectoral policy. a text that therefore enshrines a win-win agreement that every french patriot, concerned about france's industrial and commercial interests, had to vote for.
in writing. this report proposes to update the fisheries partnership between the european union and the republic of senegal to take account of the priorities of the reform of the common fisheries policy, voted last year, and its external dimension. the agreement, which is to run for five years, provides for fishing opportunities for 28 european tuna seiners, 8 european tuna seiners and 2 european trawlers and is also intended to help to revitalise cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal with a view to promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in senegal's fishing areas. finally, the agreement should allow the development of the local fisheries sector in partnership with union vessels and the supply of quality fishery products to union markets. i fully support this balanced agreement and for that reason i voted in favour.
in writing. while the first fisheries agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal was concluded in 1981, the protocol renewed in 2002 expired in 2006. the end of this cooperation between the union and senegal in the fisheries sector has resulted in a sharp reduction in the number of european vessels fishing for tuna in senegalese waters. that is why the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and senegal and its implementation protocol adopted by the european parliament are acts whose importance i would like to underline here, both for the union and for our senegalese partner. the union will be able to send more tuna vessels to senegal's waters and at least 20% of the seamen on board these vessels will have to be from senegal or from an african, caribbean and pacific country.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of senegal, considering that anything that can promote our businesses and production is laudable in this time of crisis. this agreement favours french and spanish fishermen. this sector has been particularly affected by globalisation, with which the european union has become associated. it seems only right to give back to the people at least some of what they have lost. in addition, senegalese waters are not exploited or are exploited too little, and the impact of fishing activity is negligible. small producers, however, remain at the forefront of the giants of globalisation and the ttip currently being negotiated by the commission is likely to reach them and bring them to an end.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement which will allow eu vessels to fish in senegalese waters. the agreement covers 12 tuna vessels and one french tug. it is useful because france needs to import on average almost 80% of fishery products to meet its domestic demand. he comes at a time when senegal, like many developing countries, is suffering from "pirate" fishing. on 4 january 2014, a russian vessel, the oleg naydenov, was seized for illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing in senegalese waters. he had to pay a fine of one million dollars. this is not a unilateral operating agreement but an agreement which respects each party. in exchange for fishing rights, we are paying financial compensation to senegal, plus licence fees paid directly by the shipowners, to develop the port infrastructure of that country. the solution to the immigration problem will be found in the economic development of africa.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of senegal. anything that can help our businesses and our production is good to take in these difficult times. this is the heart of the agreement, which favours french and spanish fishermen. this sector has been particularly affected by the globalisation brought about by the european union. we therefore consider it right that we should give him some in return. after having treated them so harshly, after having made them the laggards of globalisation, the union finally cares a little bit about its fishermen, who, like farmers, constitute the lungs of our sovereignty. we know that the senegalese waters are not exploited or are exploited too little, so fishing there has no negative impact on the ecology. however, we should not forget that small producers remain at the forefront of the giants of globalisation and the ttip currently being negotiated by the commission may hit them so hard that they cannot recover.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and senegal. the protocol to this fisheries agreement was renegotiated by the european commission for a period of five years. it respects the principles of sustainable fishing and benefits both parties. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to allow european union vessels (mainly spanish and french) to fish in senegalese waters in return for financial compensation and fees, the total value of which is estimated at eur 13 930 000, and for investments in port infrastructure. although it lacks measures to combat piracy in senegalese waters, the agreement optimises the exploitation of resources and increases transparency. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this agreement because it allows eu vessels to continue fishing in senegalese waters. 38 vessels will be able to catch 14 000 tonnes of tuna and 2 000 tonnes of black hake a year. in return, senegal will receive a variable sum of around eur 1 700 000 per year. it is a balanced agreement which respects the interests of both parties.
in writing. vote in favour of this agreement, the implementation of which will allow for better exploitation of certain fish stocks, including hake, in senegalese waters. this can only be beneficial for this country which is suffering from the abuses of certain foreign trawlers, described by the senegalese authorities as "pirate boats", who come to fish illegally in their territorial waters. these 'pirate fishing' practices are widespread in developing countries and endanger their maritime resources, representing a significant financial loss. it is therefore desirable to support the economies of these countries. this agreement is in that direction.
in writing. two out of three fish consumed in europe are imported. to secure its supplies, the union enters into agreements with producing countries, often developing countries, when they lack the know-how, technical and human resources or political will to exploit their fisheries resources. the question is to allow french and spanish vessels to fish for tuna and black hake off the coast of senegal. these measures cause prices to fall and penalise local small-scale fishermen. in addition, there is uncertainty regarding the stock of black hake, which makes such an authorisation dangerous for biodiversity. i vote against it.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to allow european union vessels (mainly spanish and french) to fish in senegalese waters in return for financial compensation and fees, the total value of which is estimated at eur 13 930 000, and for investments in port infrastructure. although it lacks any mechanism to combat piracy in senegalese waters, the agreement allows for optimum exploitation of resources and greater transparency. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which establishes a sustainable fisheries partnership between the european union and senegal. the agreement allows french and spanish tuna, tuna- and tuna-fishing vessels to fish in senegalese waters for a fee of almost €14 million. the agreement is fair and sustainable in that it contains clauses which require that at least 20% of the seamen on board vessels authorised to fish must be from senegal or an acp country. the fishing opportunities have been assessed on the basis of the scientific advice of the eastern central atlantic fisheries committee.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it is essential to set the criteria for sustainable fishing and to allow the coastal countries of africa, particularly senegal, to enjoy their full rights in their territorial waters in terms of fishing.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to allow european union vessels (mainly spanish and french) to fish in senegalese waters in return for financial compensation and fees, the total value of which is estimated at eur 13 930 000, and for investments in port infrastructure. although it lacks any mechanism to combat piracy in senegalese waters, the agreement allows for the optimum exploitation of resources and increases transparency. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the european parliament must approve the conclusion of negotiations conducted by the european commission with the republic of senegal. the agreement provides for increased fishing capacity, in proportion to the available natural resources, for union flags, in particular french flags. on the other hand, the financial contribution from the european union and its commitment to local workers and resources seem to me to be balanced. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. i supported this report, which is part of the renegotiation of the protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european union and senegal for a period of five years. the agreement allows three types of vessels to be authorised to fish in senegalese waters and the protocol contains clauses on suspension and termination of the protocol in the event of violations of human rights or commitments made in the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. i voted in favour of this fisheries agreement between the european union and senegal, which allows for the allocation of more than eur 13 million to the senegalese authorities in exchange for a fishing licence for a limited number of european vessels. the union also undertakes that at least 20% of the seamen on board these vessels fishing in senegalese waters must be from senegal or an acp country. the agreement, which respects the principles of sustainable fishing and the conservation of fish stocks, is based on the scientific advice of the committee for fisheries in the eastern and central atlantic (copace) and is part of the external dimension of the common european fisheries policy.
in writing. vote in favour of this agreement, the implementation of which will allow for better exploitation of cod stocks in senegalese waters. this can only be beneficial for this country which is suffering from the abuses of certain foreign trawlers, described by the senegalese authorities as "pirate boats", who come to fish illegally in senegalese waters. such "pirate fishing" is common in developing countries. we must therefore do everything possible to combat these practices in order to support the economies of these countries.
in writing. this resolution is welcome as it calls into question the obscurantist laws of saudi arabia. while many member states are very close to that country, its legal system is very similar to that of the so-called islamic state and the same barbaric punishments are practised there. the resolution draws a parallel between saudi arabia and the so-called islamic state. i am glad that the saudis have become aware of their barbarity, but i have abstained because it is not the place of the european parliament to interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign state.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it reiterates its strong condemnation of the use of advanced interrogation techniques, which are prohibited by international law and constitute violations of, inter alia, the right to liberty, the right to security, the right to humane treatment, the right not to be subjected to torture, the right to the presumption of innocence, the right to a fair trial, the right to legal counsel and the right to equal protection before the law.
in writing. here, as elsewhere, there seems to be more concern for the rights of the perpetrators than for the rights of the victims. i have no doubt that the united states is not to blame for this, and i did not hesitate to vote against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. this report, which clearly establishes the complicity of a number of member states of the union in the cia programme, should enable the union to shed light on these operations and to know the exact perpetrators of these acts. it is undeniable that the european states must also repent on this issue, but we must go further and speak out now worldwide against such dishonorable practices and avoid waking up from our slumber after such cases have been revealed. the practice of torture in abominable conditions and the existence of secret prisons on european soil should alert us and encourage us to uphold the rights to security, liberty and the presumption of innocence and to condemn the use of advanced interrogation techniques which are not worthy of the values we cherish. finally, the fight against corruption must also be our priority.
in writing. i voted against this motion for a resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. my colleagues from the s&d, alde, gue and efdd groups (an interesting alliance) are right to condemn the practice of torture, but their text is completely unrealistic from the perspective of the fight against terrorism. of course, every effort must be made to ensure that human rights are respected, and there is no doubt that there are areas of uncertainty about the cia's activities in this area. but this motion for a resolution was wrong in opposing respect for human rights and the fight against terrorism. this manichean view cannot lead to realistic and balanced action in both areas. in this context, we must work together with the united states of america, especially since this initiative by the us senate shows the goodwill of the latter and that it is therefore not a question of retreating from our collaboration in dismantling the jihadist networks. the ecr and epp co-signatories of this resolution understood this very well and that is why i voted in favour of their motion for a resolution (rc8-0123/2015).
in writing. it is regrettable that on such a subject the left-wing and liberal groups have once again shown themselves closed to discussion and negotiation. the resolution could not therefore take account of the position of our group, which we had to express in a separate motion for a resolution. i did not, however, vote against the motion for a resolution tabled by the left group, the liberal group and the efdd. i have heard some of the demands expressed in it, such as the desire to investigate allegations of the cia's transporting and illegally detaining prisoners in european countries and to report back to the plenary within a year. i am therefore in favour of the member states shedding light on these allegations.
in writing. thirteen years after 9/11 and the us-led war on terror, there are still many areas of uncertainty surrounding the question of the cia's secret prisons in europe. in december, the u.s. senate released a report on the cia's use of torture. this document reveals evidence suggesting the complicity and responsibility of several european states in the secret detention and 'return' programme. while it is clear that the fight against terrorism requires a determined commitment from the union and its main partners, it is imperative that this fight be framed by the principles of law and respect our fundamental values, starting with the rights and integrity of the human person. the member states must therefore investigate these centres in their territory and shed light on possible cases of human rights violations. finally, the commission, as guardian of the treaties and the charter of human rights, will have to establish whether cooperation in the cia's detention programmes constitutes an infringement of european law, fundamental rights and, more broadly, democratic principles.
in writing. it took almost 10 years after the first revelations of clandestine cia detention centres in europe in november 2005 for the us to take responsibility and acknowledge the use of torture and human rights abuses. but this report must also oblige the member states to accept their responsibilities. the investigations must continue and must not stop, as we have repeatedly stressed. i condemn all forms of torture and reaffirm my commitment to the fight against terrorism. but we cannot afford to sacrifice our freedoms and our basic rights for that. the states and the politicians who have forgotten this must take responsibility.
in writing. the joint resolution echoes the us senate report condemning the illegal interrogation practices. the different demands made to the member states, however, risk hindering and complicating the fight against terrorism, which is why i voted against. the ecr group resolution reaffirms that effective counter-terrorism measures and respect for human rights are not contradictory but complementary and mutually reinforcing objectives, and that there is a need to step up security cooperation between eu member states and the us.
in writing. the greens/efa group voted in favour of the resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. the european parliament, by instructing the civil liberties committee to resume its inquiry into allegations of the cia's transporting and illegally detaining prisoners in european countries, is allowing the work begun in 2006 by its temporary committee to continue. the european parliament is particularly concerned about the need to shed light on these operations and establish the responsibilities of each of them, given that the us senate report clearly establishes the complicity of a number of eu member states in the cia programme. it does not merely confirm the existence of secret prisons on european soil or the practice of torture in its most abominable forms. it also reveals probable facts of corruption. the member states must take responsibility for their policies and the actions of their secret services. it is a fight for our values and a fight for a strengthened democracy. that is what the european parliament has voted for today.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which strongly condemns, once again (after a report in september 2012, after a report in october 2013), the unacceptable practices of "extraordinary restitution", detention in secret prisons and torture, and especially the complicity of european states with these cia "programs". for years we have demanded that the member states involved conduct thorough, impartial and independent investigations into the failures and abuses that have occurred and that the european union conform to its values; and we are recalling this in this new report. more detailed investigations must be carried out and responsibility must be established! i hope that the adoption of this report, as well as the recent publication of a report by the us senate on this subject, will make it possible to make progress in the redress of these unacceptable practices!
in writing. following the publication of a damning us senate report on the cia detention and interrogation programme, i supported the european parliament's request to have an inquiry opened in the afet, droi and libe committees to ascertain whether eu member states had participated in these illegal procedures, on the basis of cooperation already highlighted in previous reports. a report in plenary will have to be adopted within a year. torture is not only an unacceptable crime, condemned by international human rights conventions, but it is above all a challenge to one of the fundamental values we share in europe, namely respect for human dignity. we must therefore ensure that member states have not collaborated in these criminal acts, either by providing secret detention facilities or by turning a blind eye to the transport of prisoners through their territory. this will certainly not be an easy task and we can expect to encounter obstacles, including the abuse of state secrets and the classification of documents which have the effect of closing a criminal case.
in writing. the european parliament has ordered the resumption of its investigation into allegations of the cia's transport and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries and will report back within a year. this resolution comes a few weeks after the publication of the us senate report on torture by the cia, which i strongly condemn. however, i am disturbed by the parallelism in the forms that the european parliament tends to establish with the member states of the union, on the assumption that our governments would be the compliant accomplices of these unacceptable practices. the decision to reopen an investigation should not be used as an opportunity to lay charges against governments and their intelligence services, but to shed light on verified and proven facts.
in writing. the joint resolution echoes the us senate report condemning the illegal interrogation practices. the different demands made to the member states, however, risk hindering and complicating the fight against terrorism, which is why i voted against. the ecr group resolution reaffirms that effective counter-terrorism measures and respect for human rights are not contradictory but complementary and mutually reinforcing objectives and that security cooperation between eu member states and the us should be intensified.
in writing. i did not support the joint resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. this resolution is unbalanced and does not salute the work of the united states senate. it also fails to reaffirm the eu's commitment to cooperate with the united states in the global fight against terrorism.
in writing. the resolution takes as its starting point the us senate report which states that the cia used prohibited advanced interrogation techniques, namely acts of torture. this report has undermined the previous negotiations of the right-wing majority on this subject. the resolution's approach is to see in it the will of american political circles to hold the population accountable for the cia programme. it therefore welcomes president obama's 'decrees prohibiting torture' and 'his tireless action to close the detention centre at the us military base at guantanamo bay'. it was scheduled to close in 2009, six years ago. finally, while the resolution strongly condemns the use of torture, it calls on member states investigating the use of torture by the cia to base their investigations on solid judicial evidence. i vote against this hypocritical resolution.
in writing. this resolution concerns the recent us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. some countries of the european union have been involved and blamed, more or less directly, for these practices. the report confirms the allegations of the cia's transporting and illegally holding prisoners in secret prisons located in certain member states of the european union. equally serious, the report mentions probable corruption, once again demonstrating the submission of some eu countries to the us. this proposal in fact hinders and complicates the fight against terrorism. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. a report released by the us senate on 9 december 2014 shed light on the secret program used by the cia to interrogate suspected al-qaeda militants after 9/11. the report accuses the agency of subjecting several detainees to brutal techniques for several years. it was concluded that the cia's torture methods were ineffective. the joint resolution of the epp and ecr groups stresses that the fight against terrorism and respect for human rights are not contradictory but complementary. transatlantic cooperation based on these common values and respect for fundamental rights is a priority in the european union's external relations. our resolution here welcomes the report of the special committee of the us senate, which is a positive step forward in the public opposition and criticism of the cia detention and interrogation programme and which demonstrates the willingness of the american political circles, with the support of members of both parties represented in congress, to hold the public accountable for the cia programme.
in writing. i voted against this text and supported the resolution put forward by the epp and the ecr, because the text was more balanced and respected the national prerogatives of the member states. it recalled the importance of human rights, condemned advanced interrogation techniques and called on the member states concerned to conduct their investigations seriously. the resolution adopted calls on the libe committee to conduct an inquiry, although it has neither the legitimacy nor the means to do so. the result cannot be serious.
in writing. this resolution concerns the recent us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. some countries of the european union have been involved and blamed, more or less directly, for these practices. the report confirms the allegations of the cia's transporting and illegally holding prisoners in secret prisons located in certain member states of the european union. equally serious, the report mentions probable corruption, once again demonstrating the submission of some eu countries to the us. this proposal in fact hinders and complicates the fight against terrorism. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i would first like to welcome the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia and the measures taken by the us president to close guantanamo. the resolution on which the european parliament was to deal first was mainly led by a socialist alliance, thus excluding the ppe group. i therefore voted against the first resolution, because the resolution proposed by the epp group was more balanced and more practical. while transparency requirements are crucial, they must not be detrimental to the primary objective of combating terrorism. as the epp group proposed in its resolution, while maintaining a firm stance against torture, it is necessary to emphasize cooperation between states and the establishment of mutual trust.
in writing. by instructing the civil liberties committee to resume its investigation into allegations of the cia's transportation and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries, the european parliament allows the work begun in 2006 by its temporary committee to continue. the european parliament is all the more concerned about shedding light on these operations and establishing the responsibilities of each individual, since the us senate report clearly establishes the complicity of a number of member states in the cia programme. it does not merely confirm the existence of secret prisons on european soil or the practice of torture in its most abominable forms. it also reveals - and this is new - probable facts of corruption. some member states have reportedly accepted money in exchange for their cooperation with the cia. these are all matters which the european parliament will have to investigate. making complicity transparent, revealing the truth and bringing justice will not make terrorism a reality, quite the contrary. it is a fight for our values and a fight for a strengthened democracy. that is what the european parliament has voted for today.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the use of illegal interrogation practices. respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law is essential, including in counter-terrorism policies. i welcome the decision of the us senate intelligence committee to release the report on the cia's detention and interrogation program. it is now the duty of the united states to investigate and prosecute the practices of your agency and we invite you to do so. beyond the conviction, we urge member states to shed light on the allegations against them: people detained in the framework of the cia programme, torture or illicit transport of prisoners. to this end, our committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has been instructed to carry out an inquiry and to publish the results within a year.
in writing. i voted against this joint resolution by the s&d, alde, greens, gue and efdd groups because, in my opinion, the resolution by the epp and the ecr was more balanced and measured. our resolution strongly condemned the cia's interrogation practices and welcomed the publication of the report of the u.s. senate select committee on the agency's deviant program. we called on president obama to continue his efforts to close the detention centre at the us military base in guantanamo and to release the detainees who have not been charged. however, i am not convinced that the establishment of a special european parliament committee of inquiry into the participation of european countries in the cia programme, as proposed in the joint resolution, is effective or appropriate. the commission of inquiry would have neither the means, the competence nor the legitimacy to carry out such a mission.
in writing. nearly 15 years after the beginning of the cia's abduction, internment in third countries and torture programs, when the facts were known and exploited even by the cinema since at least 2005, we are lucky to see today an act of repentance by america and european states that participated in them. america has used methods that are dishonorable to its values and those who have followed in europe have dishonored the values of europe. it is the following and the forgetting of values that have given rise to torture. as in ukraine today, the same forgetfulness, the same pro-american following and the same dishonor. will it take 15 years for you to say, "we didn't know, we're sorry"? the european parliament will also have to make its mea culpa.
mr president, there are good things in the resolution that has just been voted, but there is also, i think, a certain angelicality. one essential factor, for example, is not mentioned: it is the breeding ground for terrorism and, in particular, the fact that it is the product of a massive immigration from mainly muslim countries, a part of whose population - not all of them, of course - is sensitive to the literal and bellicose interpretation of the qur'anic texts. where did the kouachi brothers, who are responsible for the murders at the charlie hebdo editorial office in paris, come from? where did the coulibalys come from, responsible for murders in a hidden grocery store and an assassination attempt against police officers in nice? how did they become french? what had they done to justify their presence on national territory? what was the status of these men? who had provided for them? these are questions which the french government does not ask, because they would lead to a review of the questions of substance. this is also the major shortcoming of the resolution which has just been adopted.
in writing. in the face of the growing danger of terrorism in europe, whether imported, financed from outside or developing more or less autonomously on the territory of the member states, i share the european parliament's desire to deal with the problem. the proposed measures are unfortunately not up to the task, such as data exchanges, which are too timid a solution. the real measures to combat terrorism are not even mentioned, in particular the recovery of sovereignty by states over the control of their borders in order to control the flows that cross them and the assessment of the financial participation of certain extra-european powers in the development of international terrorism in europe. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because the measures adopted make it possible to strengthen the security of citizens who reside in the territory of the european union.
in writing. while the european union is continuing its negotiations with turkey, which lets jihadists come and go, while the libyan authorities what remains of them are warning us of the risk of jihadist infiltration among illegal immigrants, the only concrete measure proposed by the eurobieats is to follow the anglo-saxon model and to check airline passengers. but all the intelligence experts tell us that our security services do not have the means to monitor the thousands of suspects already on our soil. i could not therefore support the irresponsible blindness of these measurements.
in writing. your proposals to fight terrorism at european level seem to be just another trick with "measures" to make a good impression after the tragic events that have hit france. after the debates we had in the last plenary, i can only make a sad observation about the impotence in the face of terrorism, which is the result of years of laxity on the part of the union and the governments of most member states. that is why i have drafted and tabled with colleagues a european motion for a resolution on the immediate suspension of the schengen agreements, in accordance with article 2 (2), with the aim of re-establishing border controls and preventing the terrorist threat. in addition, we ask the commission to draw up a list of passenger name records (pnr) and to add a list of passengers who are not allowed to fly. finally, it is high time to stop indulging in illusions and the union must also and above all stop all negotiations for the accession of new countries to the union, such as turkey or the balkan countries. i still abstained on that report.
in writing. threats to our continent are increasing. our people and our values are in danger from terrorism. some european citizens are beheaded in conflict zones and then brought to europe. these events are one of the consequences of the lack of awareness of our governments in managing migration flows. we have left the doors of europe wide open. we are paying the price today. the asylum system can therefore present many problems. this means that jihadists can infiltrate via lampedusa, among other places. the restoration of the internal borders of the union would make it possible to strengthen controls in order to effectively protect the population against this terror. i abstained on this resolution which hardly raises the problems and does not propose the solutions which are necessary in the light of these events.
in writing. the paris attacks have re-ignited the debate on the appropriate european measures to combat terrorism. the resolution adopted by the european parliament proposes certain measures for prevention and cooperation between member states. it was important that parliament should speak with one voice on a subject so important and unfortunate that the greens and the far left did not understand it. however, it does not offer a real and immediate solution, which is what the situation requires. the measures proposed by the epp were, however, concrete: judicial and police cooperation, reinforced controls at external borders and the rapid adoption of a european pnr. we must find european solutions to combat terrorism. the establishment of a european pnr is one of these solutions. i find it regrettable that the socialists and liberals are still dogmatically opposed to a european nrp, which is necessary. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. i voted for this motion for a resolution because the preventive measures it proposes to stem the wave of radicalisation we are experiencing and especially the european responses it gives to fill the gaps in the legislation in force in our member states are appropriate. the schengen rules need to be optimized, because only improved police and judicial cooperation between member states will make it possible to guarantee freedom of movement at european level. we must take action: the fight against crossborder crime requires a stricter use of border controls. in this context, the european pnr should no longer be an option but a matter of course. we have to make sacrifices and find a balance between civil liberties and security. there is no doubt that enhancing the exchange of intelligence is enhancing the security of our countries. however, one thing is missing from this resolution, and i regret it, and that is the creation of a european prosecutor's office, which is necessary of its own accord. europol cannot take over everything. today the alleged perpetrators are arrested, but it is very difficult to try them, for reasons of the jurisdiction of the national courts. i therefore welcome the establishment of this european prosecutor.
in writing. the urgent need was indeed to adopt a text on measures to be taken to combat terrorism. i would like to stress the imperfection of this text, however: it is a case of 'social terrorism', where we worry about the rise of fundamentalism on the one hand, but reaffirm the validity of schengen on the other. the european parliament's resolution on the schengen agreement is a welcome step towards the conclusion of the schengen agreement. the measures proposed are more a matter of evangelicalism than a pragmatic analysis of reality: if potential jihadists are becoming radicalised, it is because society stigmatises them. yet despite these imperfections, we must support everything that goes in the direction of the war on terrorism; that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. this resolution calls on the european union to respond without delay to the terrorist threats it faces. the european union should promote cooperation between member states by allowing the adoption of a harmonised definition of the phenomenon of 'foreign fighters', by stepping up the prevention of and the fight against radicalisation, particularly in prisons, and by supporting deradicalisation programmes. it should also strengthen the tools available by making more efficient use of the schengen information system, the possibilities for control at the union's external borders and the capacities of europol and eurojust. finally, the union must have a legislative arsenal which respects the freedoms and rights of european citizens, but which is effective, with a rapid agreement on the pnr directive and the creation of a european system for monitoring the financing of terrorism. i believe that this resolution strikes a balance between the necessary objective of data protection and the imperative of the security of european citizens, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. while this joint resolution contains some interesting proposals, i regret that we have not reached a satisfactory agreement on the issue of the european pnr. i therefore reject the strict link between the progress of the negotiations on the european pnr and the negotiations on the data protection package. while it is essential for the european union to have a clear legislative framework to guarantee the fundamental right to the protection of personal data, the slowness of its negotiation should not be used as an argument to hold back the urgent adoption of a tool essential to the fight against terrorism in europe. strengthening security and protecting fundamental rights are not incompatible. we must stop taking the security of european citizens hostage.
in writing. the european parliament has demonstrated europe's capacity to act by adopting by a very large majority its resolution on counter-terrorism measures. the answer must be a firm one within the natural framework of our rule of law. the aim is to put in place a comprehensive strategy to combat radicalisation and terrorism by optimising the existing legal frameworks, including the fight against money laundering, the european arrest warrant, the introduction of systematic checks at the schengen external borders, but also to go further by setting up a european pnr, strengthening the powers of europol and eurojust, creating a european prosecutor and monitoring exchanges and networks on the internet.
in writing. the greens/efa group voted against the resolution on counter-terrorism measures. adopted by four political groups, including socialists and liberals, it promotes a measure which seriously harms freedoms without responding to the terrorist threat. they prefer mass surveillance and the retention of personal data to effective measures. we refuse to 'exploit' the paris attacks, as one ump (epp) member said, to promote the famous european pnr. the effectiveness of this measure has yet to be proven. the ep also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the pnr is not just an infringement of freedoms. it's also a choice of company. the commission's proposal is to spend €500 million on mass surveillance when it would be more useful to finance targeted surveillance of genuine suspects, field work, cooperation between police and intelligence services of the member states, including joint investigation teams under the authority of europol and eurojust. 500 million to prevent radicalisation, to fight unemployment and exclusion, to reform prisons, to build an inclusive society, our strength against the murderous madness of terrorists.
in writing. in the face of the growing danger of terrorism in europe, whether imported, financed from outside or developing more or less autonomously on the territory of the member states, the european parliament's willingness to take the problem into its own hands is commendable. however, the suggested measures are not up to the task, especially data exchange, which is too timid a solution. the real measures to combat terrorism are not mentioned: the sovereignty of states over their borders, which allows them to control the flows that cross them, and the assessment of the financial participation of certain extra-european powers in the development of international terrorism in europe. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. the greens/efa group voted against the resolution on counter-terrorism measures. adopted by four political groups, including socialists and liberals, it promotes a measure which seriously harms freedoms without responding to the terrorist threat. they prefer mass surveillance and the retention of personal data to effective measures. we refuse to 'exploit' the paris attacks, as one ump (epp) member said, to promote the famous european pnr. the effectiveness of this measure has yet to be proven. the ep also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the pnr is not just an infringement of freedoms. it's also a choice of company. the commission's proposal is to spend €500 million on mass surveillance when it would be more useful to finance targeted surveillance of genuine suspects, field work, cooperation between police and intelligence services of the member states, including joint investigation teams under the authority of europol and eurojust. 500 million to prevent radicalisation, to fight unemployment and exclusion, to reform prisons, to build an inclusive society, our strength against the murderous madness of terrorists.
in writing. like other members of the national front, i abstained on this motion for a resolution, which seems so inept: it claims to tackle the roots of terrorism, but without identifying islamist fundamentalism as the main source of this scourge. it also proposes to maintain the schengen system, whereas the absence of internal border controls in the union greatly facilitates the movement of terrorists. this proposal does not bring anything concrete to the fight against terrorism: on the contrary, it confirms the refusal of the europeanists to act.
in writing. improving existing tools, strengthening the exchange of information between states, internal security, financing of terrorist organisations, europol powers, police cooperation, judicial cooperation, coordination, relations with third countries, etc.: the resolution we adopted lists the measures to be taken in the fight against terrorism in the wake of the horrific attacks on charlie hebdo. in the fight against terrorism, at the level of the european union, there are two urgent issues. firstly, to improve the functioning of the arsenal of tools which the european union already has in the fight against terrorism and, above all, to improve the exchange of information between member states, which was so lacking during the attacks europol, eurojust, sis, etc. secondly, we must have new tools to respond fully to the threat: genuine strategies for radicalisation, prevention of radicalisation and de-radicalisation, a european national identity number which respects the criteria of legality, necessity and proportionality and, above all, a genuine european prosecutor's office with competence in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, which we have been calling for for several years. i am sorry that some groups in this house have refused to include this last point in the resolution.
in writing. on wednesday, i voted in favour of measures to strengthen the fight against terrorism in europe. i believe that the threat posed by foreign fighters and terrorism in general requires the establishment of a firm and clear anti-terrorist pact. meps call on the eu member states to do more to combat radicalisation, by investing in educational programmes or by setting up programmes to de-radicalise. i also advocate for the reinforcement of our borders to ensure greater security for our citizens. the rapid adoption of a european pnr also remains an absolute necessity in the light of the current european challenges. this vote must be seen as the first step in strengthening our legislation to combat terrorism effectively. i would also like to denounce the irresponsible attitude of the greens and the far left, who have not wanted to join this resolution, despite the urgency of the current situation!
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on counter-terrorism measures. it is obviously the result of many compromises, but in the end the result is generally satisfactory. the resolution stresses the essential balance that must prevail between security on the one hand and respect for fundamental freedoms and rights on the other. it also promotes a multidimensional approach, addressing both security issues and socio-economic aspects. it clearly highlights the need to fully implement existing mechanisms, but also to assess their strengths and weaknesses. it also stressed the need to adopt a european external strategy to combat terrorism. the european parliament has committed itself to working towards the finalisation of the european pnr directive by the end of 2015 and is therefore urging the european commission to draw the consequences of the court of justice's judgment on the data retention directive as soon as possible. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of the eu's reform.
in writing. in a resolution on the fight against terrorism, the european parliament committed itself to continuing work on the european pnr with a view to finalising it by the end of the year. this is a complicated formula which shows how frivolous the liberals and the left are when it comes to taking the necessary measures in the face of the new threats of terrorism. in the wake of the terrorist attacks in france, citizens have expressed a clear wish: not to bow to terrorists, not to compromise european values. the duty of meps is to respond to this with strong and concrete measures: isolation of radical prisoners in prisons, loss of nationality in the case of dual nationality, national indignity, strengthening of the means of intelligence services to improve the analysis of the data collected, strengthening of the cooperation of law enforcement and judicial services with the european agencies. unfortunately, this resolution focuses a lot on the exchange of good practice, but offers nothing concrete. once again, the european parliament is missing an opportunity to act, with the epp caught between populist parties reluctant to take any european action and left-wing parties terrified by the theory of the omniscient and intrusive state.
in writing. in the face of the growing danger of terrorism in europe, whether imported, financed from outside or developing more or less autonomously on the territory of the member states, the european parliament's willingness to take the problem into its own hands is commendable. however, the suggested measures are not up to the task, for example data exchanges, which are too timid a solution. the real measures to combat terrorism are not mentioned, in particular the sovereignty of states over their borders, which would allow them to control the flows that cross them, and the assessment of the financial participation of certain extra-european powers in the development of international terrorism in europe. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. the greens/efa group voted against the resolution on counter-terrorism measures. adopted by four political groups, including socialists and liberals, it promotes a measure which seriously harms freedoms without responding to the terrorist threat. they prefer mass surveillance and the retention of personal data to effective measures. we refuse to 'exploit' the paris attacks, as one ump (epp) member said, to promote the famous european pnr. the effectiveness of this measure has yet to be proven. the ep also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the pnr is not just an infringement of freedoms. it's also a choice of company. the commission's proposal is to spend €500 million on mass surveillance when it would be more useful to finance targeted surveillance of genuine suspects, field work, cooperation between police and intelligence services of the member states, including joint investigation teams under the authority of europol and eurojust. 500 million to prevent radicalisation, to fight unemployment and exclusion, to reform prisons, to build an inclusive society, our strength against the murderous madness of terrorists.
in writing. i supported the resolution on counter-terrorism measures. the resolution calls for concrete measures to be taken in the areas of prevention, deradicalisation, reinforcement of controls at our external borders and surveillance tools, and the establishment of a european pnr. so this resolution should not be an end in itself, but the first step in strengthening our european legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on counter-terrorism measures. indeed, since the attacks in january 2015, france has been more than ever at war with an enemy that knows no face and no borders, terrorism. a spirit of unity and solidarity has therefore swept across the european union to defend our values and our freedom. i am convinced that we can only deal effectively with terrorism at european level. to this end, measures such as better police and judicial cooperation between member states, reinforced external border controls and increased internet surveillance must be implemented as soon as possible to ensure effective protection of european citizens. it is our responsibility. i regret, however, that the establishment of the european pnr, which seems to me to be both essential and urgent, is not unanimously supported by all the political groups.
in writing. the national front meps decided to abstain on the joint resolution on counter-terrorism measures, as the text unfortunately shows a disabling angelicism. while the authors of the resolution state that they want to "address the roots of terrorism" and call on the commission to "propose a clear and common definition of 'eu foreign fighters'", they lack the political courage to name islamist fundamentalism as the essential and main source of current terrorism. in addition, the text is cynical in stating that it is 'fundamentally opposed to proposals to suspend the schengen system', whereas the schengen system is a major problem. the lack of internal border controls facilitates the movement of terrorists within the european union. the fight against terrorism is therefore an additional argument for giving member states the right and the possibility to control their own borders.
in writing. i have chosen to abstain from voting on this resolution because it contains good and bad initiatives. i support the will it shows to fight terrorism. i am also pleased to note that the european parliament expresses 'its deepest sympathy with the french people' following the attacks in paris in january. i do, however, regret that the european parliament has committed itself to voting on the directive on the use of air passenger data (pnr) by the end of 2015. the directive will seriously undermine the protection of personal data of these passengers. it would also undermine the sovereignty of states, which would no longer be able to provide such protection for their citizens. finally, it poses a philosophical problem of the conception of life in society by organizing the filing of the entire population under the pretext of fighting a handful of terrorists.
in writing. following the paris attacks, this resolution proposes an arsenal of measures to combat terrorism. if the principle of free movement of persons within the schengen area is not called into question, the rest of the resolution takes on an ultra-security tone. adoption of a new pnr protocol, enhanced data exchange, and so on. the resolution also proposes an active role for the european external action service (eeas) in the fight against terrorism. finally, in terms of prevention, the text advocates "religious tolerance", ignoring that only secularism can put an end to religious tensions. i vote against this resolution.
in writing. this text deals with measures relating to the fight against terrorism. it paves the way for a future directive on pnr, a veritable blanket data-filing system which, under the guise of combating terrorism, will in reality constitute a disproportionate attack on fundamental freedoms and prove ineffective in combating terrorism, in the same way as the us patriot act and other mass surveillance. of course, nothing is said here about the re-establishment of national borders and the necessary checks. the resolution states that it is "fundamentally opposed to the proposals to suspend the schengen regime". there is also a problem of compliance with eu law, as the cjeu has already invalidated similar provisions. if there is a need to fight terrorism more, these measures seem disproportionate, which is why i abstained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which shows the common commitment of all the political groups in parliament (except the greens and the far left) against terrorism. the resolution takes up the main measures proposed by the epp to deal with the threat (combating radicalisation in prisons, combating arms trafficking, strengthening external border controls, more efficient use of existing files such as the schengen information system, etc.). an amendment which i supported commits the european parliament to finalising the draft european pnr before the end of the year. this european pnr is vital to allow us to detect terrorists going to and from training and combat zones.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on counter-terrorism measures. terrorism is a threat to our freedoms and security in a dramatic way. the fight against terrorism must be carried out in two stages: prevention and action. it is a question of going back to its origins, of understanding radicalisation and of anticipating the dynamic in which young people, in particular, are falling. member states should promote social inclusion, involve citizens in targeted educational programmes to avoid isolation and incarceration, and pay particular attention to prison living conditions. finally, the widespread use of social networks by terrorist groups is a serious encouragement to propaganda and the promotion of terrorism. the european union therefore provides the member states with a multitude of warning tools to help them in this fight, so let us show solidarity and do everything we can to prevent further tragedies.
in writing. i voted for this text but consider it a step towards strengthening our legislation. the text as adopted does indeed lack voluntarism. the rapid adoption of a european pnr remains an absolute necessity in the light of the current european challenges.
in writing. this text deals with measures relating to the fight against terrorism. it opens the door to a future directive on pnr, a veritable blanket data-filing system which, under the guise of combating terrorism, will in reality constitute a disproportionate attack on fundamental freedoms and prove ineffective in combating terrorism, in the same way as the us patriot act and other mass surveillance. of course, nothing is said here about the re-establishment of national borders and the necessary checks. the resolution states that it is "fundamentally opposed to the proposals to suspend the schengen regime". there is also a problem of compliance with eu law, as the cjeu has already invalidated similar provisions. if there is a need to fight terrorism more, these measures seem disproportionate, which is why i abstained.
in writing. i strongly support the approach taken by the european states and the european parliament in the field of counter-terrorism measures. i also welcome the fact that the way is opening up for the setting up of a system for sharing passenger name records (pnr) in air transport, because i consider that sharing to be very important and beneficial at a time when thousands of citizens of european countries are leaving to fight for islamist terrorists. let us not re-establish borders between the states of the union, but rather look for tools that will enable the security forces to better detect terrorists and thereby prevent terrorist activities. we cannot, of course, restrict basic human rights, but we cannot allow terrorists to abuse the freedom that is the foundation of our civilization.
in writing. the events in paris have reminded us of the interest of each member state in cooperating in the fight against terrorism. the resolution before the elected representatives of the european parliament is the result of a soft compromise which, unfortunately, does not sufficiently capture the seriousness of the issues at stake. nevertheless, the european parliament's agreement to the reintroduction of the pnr and to greater involvement of the european institutions and agencies in this fight should be welcomed. the processing of passenger data is an asset for the security of our continent and the mutual trust we can have.
in writing. the european union cannot give in to terrorism, hatred and barbarism. in this ambitious resolution, which i fully support, parliament calls for a comprehensive and coherent strategy to combat this threat to all of us. our approach is a multi-dimensional one, focusing on both a security and a preventive dimension, and always respecting the rule of law. to prevent the preparation of new attacks on our territory, it is first of all essential to equip the police and judicial authorities with adequate and effective european instruments to enable them to carry out their mission. some measures already exist, but will need to be reassessed and fully implemented. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. they urge the european union to participate fully in the establishment of a comprehensive partnership to combat terrorism. finally, parliament is committing itself to work towards finalising the european pnr directive by the end of the year, which i can only welcome.
in writing. following the recent tragic events in paris, it is necessary for the european union and its member states to adapt their approaches to the terrorist threat. that is why i support the joint motion for a resolution on measures to combat terrorism. first, it is a matter of recalling the need for better implementation of existing policies. the roots of radicalisation need to be tackled through economic, educational and urban policies that facilitate social inclusion and the enforcement of existing repressive measures under the schengen regime needs to be improved. secondly, in the face of a growing and evolving terrorist threat, new internal security means must be developed in europe, including the exchange of information on air passengers. i am glad that today's vote unlocks the situation on this issue in parliament. the resolution clearly supports the adoption of the pnr before the end of the year, while calling for the principle of proportionality to be respected and for negotiations on the protection of personal data to be continued. finally, member states must improve their coordination in the fight against terrorism by bringing their intelligence services and judicial institutions closer together, in particular through europol and eurojust.
in writing. the greens/efa group voted against the resolution on counter-terrorism measures. adopted by four political groups, including socialists and liberals, it promotes a measure that seriously undermines freedoms without responding to the terrorist threat. they prefer mass surveillance and the retention of personal data to effective measures. we refuse to 'exploit' the paris attacks, as one ump (epp) member said, to promote the famous european pnr. the effectiveness of this measure has yet to be proven. the ep also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the pnr is not just an infringement of freedoms. it's also a choice of company. the commission's proposal is to spend €500 million on mass surveillance when it would be more useful to finance targeted surveillance of genuine suspects, field work, cooperation between police and intelligence services of the member states, including joint investigation teams under the authority of europol and eurojust. 500 million to prevent radicalisation, to fight unemployment and exclusion, to reform prisons, to build an inclusive society, our strength against the murderous madness of terrorists.
in writing. several serious attacks have been carried out on european soil since the early 2000s, directly impacting our security. i voted in favour of this resolution which recalls the need for action at european level to combat the terrorist threat effectively. we call for a strategy based on a multidimensional approach, addressing the problem upstream through educational and social programmes promoting tolerance and accompanied, where appropriate, by de-radicalisation measures. the policy would also aim to combat incitement to terrorist acts online and to prevent new fighters from joining islamist militias. at the same time, we recall that it is essential to take measures to control movements within the european union by optimising the sharing of information between member states. we need to improve and finalise the pnr directive alongside the data protection legislative package. finally, the european union must actively promote the establishment of a global partnership to combat terrorism.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution which represents a minimum compromise on counter-terrorism measures. given the urgency of the present situation, this resolution must be seen as a first step in strengthening our european legislation on the fight against terrorism. our objective as members of the epp group remains the rapid adoption of a european pnr.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, although i regret that it does not go further in the responses to be adopted to terrorism. the text proposes specific measures to deal with the problem of european citizens going to fight in iraq, syria or libya alongside terrorist organisations, to deal with radicalisation in prisons, to combat arms trafficking in europe, to improve judicial cooperation, to strengthen external border controls and to involve internet players in the fight against terrorism. but that's not enough. it is essential that we learn from the paris attacks and have the practical tools to ensure the safety of europeans. the rapid adoption of the pnr directive is therefore a major challenge. the european union must take stock of the terrorist threat to its citizens.
in writing. contrary to rumours, the european parliament has adopted an ambitious resolution on the fight against terrorism. it was more necessary than ever to strike a balance between security and respect for fundamental freedoms and rights. although this resolution addresses security issues more than socio-economic aspects (prevention and deradicalisation strategies, inclusion, education, anti-discrimination, etc.), it clearly stresses the need to assess existing systems, to fully implement them and to analyse their weaknesses. finally, a measured amendment was tabled on the subject of air passenger data, known as pnr. a european pnr will help to combat terrorism and transnational organised crime provided that the data collected is regulated by a strong legal framework that protects the privacy of everyone. the commissioner also stressed that the eu should be able to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of the eu's reform.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum. whether it's climate, human rights or the internet, we can see the ineffectiveness of these global projects. all of them are empty incantations and prove useless in addressing the real challenges facing our countries and our fellow citizens. at least, can we agree here that the internet is not under the control of some us government agency, endangering our freedoms. but when the commission deplores this, it is because it regrets not exercising general supervision over europeans itself. it is therefore only the states that - as russia does - can demand the repatriation of data to their territory and defend their citizens by exercising their royal functions.
in writing. i support this resolution which promotes an inclusive and multi-stakeholder model of internet governance and the improvement of its international governance in the future. i am particularly pleased that the united states will abandon its supervision of the iana (ip address range management) function, which is provided by icann, the us-based body responsible for the allocation and management of domain names on the internet, as of september 2015. the aim is now to internationalize icann and all its contracts with the us administration. a few months ago, together with the wine industry, governments and the commission, we denounced the poor functioning of icann and called for a fundamental reform of the organisation. indeed, its programme for the creation and assignment of new generic internet domain names in the wine sector (.vin/.wine) was in complete disregard of european and international legislation on the protection of geographical indications. we will therefore remain committed in the weeks and months ahead to global internet governance which, while taking into account the interests of all, also acts in accordance with international law on the protection of quality agricultural and food products.
in writing. i voted against the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum. whether it's climate, human rights or the internet, we can see the ineffectiveness of these global projects. all of them have become empty incantations and have proved incapable of meeting the challenges facing the peoples. the very ambition to make the internet a transparent, neutral, safe, reliable and endlessly growing global space is utopian. but it is possible to find a compromise around a refusal to see this international network as being dominated by a particular interest that endangers our freedoms, namely the interest of a foreign power that deploys means of surveillance worldwide. but when the commission deplores this, it is because it regrets that it does not itself exercise general supervision over the peoples of europe. only states can demand the repatriation of data to their territory and defend their citizens by exercising their royal functions.
in writing. i voted against because i believe that 'internet governance' the term used to describe 'the global arrangements that ensure the smooth functioning, accessibility and technological standards of the internet in all countries' is detrimental to the interests of member states. the threats to their security and independence have been sufficiently highlighted by the recent revelations of the existence of large-scale us surveillance programmes. it is not so much that europeans are being spied on that bothers the commission, but rather that it is incapable of doing so itself. european nations must be able to protect the personal data of their citizens, as well as retain control over the governance of their strategic data. i therefore oppose all forms of internet surveillance, whether it comes from the united states or the commission. russia is a good example to follow in this respect: it has called for data storage to be carried out within its territory in this forum on internet governance. we can and must also demand it in order to defend the sovereignty and independence of our nations.
in writing. the internet is today one of the few areas in the world to allow freedom of expression, but it is also an indispensable tool for present and future development, even if it remains essential to monitor its deviations such as terrorist or mafia networks which are also present in large numbers. even if, like the commission, we can only deplore the american influence on internet governance (and patriotic colleagues have tabled a motion for a resolution calling for the creation of a european search engine), the commission should not itself want to apply to europeans a surveillance that it denounces elsewhere. regretting the ineffectiveness of such governance projects, i therefore voted against the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum.
in writing. the internet governance forum (igf) is an institution that promotes dialogue between the various public and private actors involved in internet governance. the forum is implementing a multilateral approach to the management of various internet-related challenges, such as net neutrality and the protection of fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the un general assembly to renew the mandate of the forum in 2015.
in writing. i voted against this text, which is another attempt to undermine the sovereignty of nations, especially in the area of data protection. after the recent scandals over us surveillance programmes, the commission seems to be offended that it was not the commission which had the idea of spying on the citizens of the member states. the european union is therefore negotiating its independence with the united states in this forum. only russia has dared to raise the question of its independence by asking, in the context of this forum, that its data be stored within its territory. the patriotic members, because they have at heart the defence of france's interests, but also, and above all, the protection of the freedom of their fellow citizens, will strive to ensure that france recovers the management of our country's strategic data.
in writing. the european parliament calls in this resolution for the un general assembly to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum for five years, which is due to expire at the end of 2015. this informal and international forum for debate brings together governments, the private sector and civil society every year to discuss issues related to internet governance and access, its neutrality and the protection of fundamental freedoms and human rights. because it is necessary that a specialised body exists and organizes debates on the subject of how sensitive and crucial internet governance is, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the european parliament voted by a large majority in favour of a renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum by the united nations general assembly. the forum's mission is to discuss a wide range of issues related to internet governance and to make recommendations to the international community. it was particularly necessary to reiterate our commitment to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance through a strengthening of openness, transparency, and above all the accountability of the actors in the digital world.
in writing. since 2005, the main issues of internet governance, such as equal access for all or security, have been discussed annually under the auspices of the united nations general assembly in the internet governance forum. this inclusive and multi-stakeholder model of internet governance, which allows governments, the private sector and civil society, in their respective roles, to develop principles, standards, rules and decision-making procedures, must of course be maintained and strengthened. in its resolution, the european parliament therefore calls for the mandate of the forum to be extended beyond 2015. at the next internet governance forum, to be held in brazil from 10 to 13 november 2015, the european union will have to ensure that it expresses an ambitious and coherent position, in the service of its values and political and economic interests.
in writing. i voted against the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum. whether it's climate, human rights or the internet, we can see the ineffectiveness of these global projects. all of them have become empty incantations and have proved incapable of meeting the challenges facing the peoples. the very ambition to make the internet a global space that is transparent, neutral, safe, reliable and a vehicle for endless growth seems utopian. but it is possible to find a compromise around a refusal to see this international network as being dominated by a particular interest that endangers our freedoms, namely the interest of a foreign power that deploys means of surveillance worldwide. but when the commission deplores this, it is because it regrets that it does not itself exercise general supervision over the peoples of europe. only states can demand the repatriation of data to their territory and defend their citizens by exercising their royal functions.
in writing. i voted against this resolution which calls on the un general assembly to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum and allocate more resources to it. the organisation aims to facilitate a "democratic, transparent and multilateral" dialogue with the aim of promoting the protection of fundamental freedoms online, including freedom of expression and respect for privacy. yet this body, under the auspices of the united nations, has proved completely ineffective. it is incapable of defending the freedom of the internet, as everyone saw in the revelations of edward snowden about the american spy system prism.
in writing. i voted against the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum. whether it's climate, human rights or the internet, we can see the ineffectiveness of these global projects. all of them are empty incantations and prove incapable of meeting the real challenges facing our countries and our citizens. the very ambition to make the internet a transparent, neutral, safe, reliable and endlessly growing global space seems to me futile, because the internet is not immune to the conflicting interests that, on the contrary, constitute it. we have to be very careful not to let the internet be controlled by a particular interest which threatens our freedoms: i am speaking of course of the united states. but when the commission deplores this, it is because it regrets not exercising general supervision over europeans itself. only states can therefore, as russia does, demand the repatriation of data on their territory and defend their citizens by exercising royal functions.
in writing. it is important to support the renewal of the mandate of this important forum, the internet governance forum (igf), which expires in 2015. the igf enables democratic and multilateral political dialogue on the future of the internet, a pillar of the digital single market and today a major source of the union's growth. there is therefore a need to discuss issues of internet governance and to improve access to the internet worldwide.
in writing. internet governance aims to ensure that the internet works properly and that any website is accessible from anywhere. this is done by strengthening the defence of democracy, individual freedoms and human rights. but recently, the scandal that erupted following snowden's revelations has challenged the u.s. management of this issue. the document before us is too conciliatory of american surveillance practices. so he asks himself the following questions. is this an admission of impotence on the part of the european union and a lack of independence vis-à-vis the united states? can this project challenge us surveillance of the internet? or is it a new powerful geopolitical lever to coerce certain "reluctant" states to us interests? in view of these questions and the lack of clarity in the draft, i am voting against the principle of centralised 'governance' of the internet. in a multipolar world, each nation must be able to store and protect its own strategic information. it's the defense of sovereignty.
in writing. with the support of the un, the internet governance forum has brought together governments, internet companies and civil society since 2005 to develop a coherent policy on global challenges, particularly reliability, net neutrality and bridging the digital divide. the resolution welcomes the commitment made by the us government in march 2014 to transfer the administration of iana (ip address) functions and also stresses the importance of full accountability and transparency of icann (domain name). the resolution also rejects the idea of a state-controlled internet and large-scale internet surveillance but of course, without naming those who practice such surveillance. i am voting, however, to renew the mandate of this forum pending its conclusions next autumn.
in writing. the resolution aims to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum (un-led) which discusses, among other things, future technological standards and the proper functioning of the internet. the text strengthens the resources of the forum and calls on the un to renew its mandate. however, this forum also discusses the regulation of the internet. while this is justified in some cases, the freedom of access and expression on the internet for the majority, a genuine fundamental right, must not be restricted under the pretext of combating the misguided behaviour of a minority. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls on the un general assembly to renew for five years and to strengthen the mandate of the internet governance forum, an informal forum that meets every year. the text also recalls several key principles of internet governance: net neutrality, multi-stakeholder governance, protection of fundamental freedoms and human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of renewing the mandate of the internet governance forum, an annual meeting that provides an international forum for discussion. the resolution adopted by parliament calls on the un to extend the mandate of the forum and to increase its resources. the forum helps to maintain a multi-stakeholder model of internet governance and to ensure that the web remains a truly global resource. the resolution also stresses the importance of the principle of net neutrality and the protection of fundamental freedoms and human rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because respect for online privacy rights and the right of users to control their personal data is a fundamental right of every individual.
in writing. the resolution aims to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum (un-led), which discusses future technological standards and the proper functioning of the internet. the text strengthens the resources of the forum and calls on the un to renew its mandate. however, this forum also discusses the regulation of the internet. while this is justified in some cases, the freedom of access and expression on the internet for the majority, a genuine fundamental right, must not be restricted under the pretext of combating the misguided behaviour of a minority. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. everyday life is now intimately linked to the internet and the internet governance forum is trying to propose a policy discussion at international level to better control this medium as a vehicle for both growth and knowledge. the european union is closely involved in the creation of this forum, and through this resolution the european parliament must vote on its support for this effort, which i support. the european union must fight this battle in the long term to preserve the internet as a space of freedom and not anarchy.
in writing. in view of the important decisions on the internet that will have to be taken in the coming years, i voted in favour of the resolution on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum (igf). the igf is now the only international forum for political, democratic and transparent dialogue on internet regulation with the participation of all stakeholders. as the us government finally prepares to transfer the internet surveillance functions to the international community, it is essential that the un general assembly renew the igf's mandate. this is especially important as many sensitive issues are about to be addressed: data security, privacy, net neutrality, freedom of expression, non-discriminatory access to knowledge and the fight against terrorist radicalisation. it is essential that these issues are addressed at international level and that, through the presence of parliament at the igf, we ensure the contribution of the internet to cultural diversity, trade and growth.
in writing. the united nations general assembly will soon have to decide whether to renew the internet governance forum (igf), whose current mandate will end in 2015. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for its mandate to be renewed, more resources allocated to it and the consolidation of the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance that this forum promotes. we welcome the decision of the national telecommunications and information administration of the united states department of commerce to transfer the internet surveillance functions, currently exercised by the ip address management authority (iana), to the global stakeholder community. however, it will be necessary to ensure that this transition is smooth. we call on the member states, the commission and all interested parties to consolidate the viability of this model by enhancing openness, transparency and accountability of the actors in the internet world. finally, we reiterate in this text our commitment to the principles of net neutrality, data security, respect for privacy, and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms on the net.
in writing. i supported this resolution because it is essential that the internet governance forum can continue its work under the auspices of the united nations general assembly for the next five years. today, the internet is an indispensable tool and its governance concerns every citizen. such governance must take into account the importance of net neutrality, the need for multi-stakeholder governance and must ensure the protection of fundamental freedoms and human rights. the european union must continue to act and remain vigilant as regards the tool of freedom that cyberspace must remain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the united nations to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum and to strengthen its resources. the forum brings together representatives from governments, industry and civil society to discuss global arrangements to ensure the smooth functioning, accessibility and technological standards of the internet in all countries. internet governance must be inclusive and multi-stakeholder, and truly international, so as not to be dominated by the economic and political interests of a few. the functioning of icann, the us private-law company responsible for the assignment of domain names, must therefore be thoroughly reviewed.
in writing. internet governance is the set of arrangements made at the 'global level' to organise the internet. it aims to ensure that the site is operational and that any site is accessible from anywhere. it wishes to strengthen what it considers to be the most effective means of defending democracy, individual freedoms and human rights. snowden's revelations have challenged the american approach to internet governance. this case was a sign of the european union's backwardness on this issue. the document is concerned about us surveillance practices and parliament welcomes the us's too timid commitments. questions on the igf: - is this an admission of the impotence of a union forced to negotiate its independence with the united states? - does he challenge u.s. surveillance of the internet rather than the surveillance of the internet itself? - is it a new powerful geopolitical lever to force some "reluctant" states to respect human rights and democracy in the american way? i vote against the principle of centralized "governance" of the internet with opaque objectives. in a multipolar world, each nation must be able to store and protect its strategic information and data.
in writing. this motion for a resolution provides additional protection for consumers in the member states in terms of food safety and health controls. the indication of the place of origin favours the relocation of certain production activities, providing a guarantee of quality, especially in view of the obvious distortions within the european union in this field. finally, it is an element that tends to reduce the asymmetry of information that the consumer may suffer from, but also makes it possible to further segment the market for meat used in processed foods in order to promote competition between actors that respect traceability and origin requirements.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because i am in favour of voluntary labelling and not compulsory labelling as this text advocates.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to make it compulsory to indicate the origin of meat in processed foods following the horse meat lasagna scandal. beyond the health reasons that make food traceability essential, it is perfectly normal for consumers to have access to information about the origin of meat. this will enable them to choose local products and thus support our french farmers who are suffering from unfair competition imposed by the union. while i regret that this resolution does not go any further - it is only a question of indicating the place where the last 'major processing' took place, whereas more precision would be desirable (in particular as regards the place of rearing, the type of feed and especially the method of slaughter) - i consider the indication of the country of origin to be a welcome first step towards consumer protection.
in writing. the purpose of this legislative proposal is to make it compulsory to indicate the origin of meat in processed food following the 'spanghero' scandal of horse meat lasagna. to avoid any health risk, it is obviously necessary to indicate the origin of the ingredients, especially since the impact of labelling is still very small (1 euro cent). it also allows us to prefer buying local products and thus to promote the short circuits that the fn advocates. the text is therefore a first step towards greater transparency, although there are still some details to be clarified, for example on the place of birth, the breeding and the method of slaughter. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the indication of the country of origin of meat in processed foods. the spanghero lasagna scandal only reinforces the legitimate concerns of consumers who want more traceability. the interests of industrialists must not be allowed to prevail over the health security of europeans. the economic argument of the cost of this measure seems to be greatly exaggerated by the commission. indeed, a study by que choisir shows that its impact is small, in the order of one cent of a euro. more stringent rules should also be laid down on the indication of the place of birth of the animals, the place of slaughter and even the method of slaughter.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the compulsory indication of the country of origin of meat used in processed foods. the european union must impose strict meat labelling to improve the traceability of processed food. this is necessary in order to protect consumers and to combat fraud. we must learn the lessons of the horse meat scandal. the resolution calls on the commission to draw up a proposal to make the country of origin labelling of meat used in processed food compulsory.
in writing. i have voted in favour of this resolution, which is a first step towards consumer protection. the resolution calls for food traceability, a necessary measure, as was seen in the horse meat lasagna scandal. in addition to being a key food safety measure, food tracing will also be less costly, as a que choisir study has shown. i only regret that the resolution did not go further, for example by determining the method of slaughter, which is a growing concern among our compatriots.
in writing. this resolution calls on the european commission to exercise greater vigilance on the labelling of processed food and invites it to submit a new legislative proposal to the european parliament to do so. the current regulation provides for mandatory labelling of meat, but the provisions on processed dishes are not yet implemented. this is not satisfactory and new impetus is needed. although i question the ability of the member states to ensure effective controls along the whole production chain, which requires considerable financial and human resources, i wanted to support the process of clarifying the legislative framework and therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. by voting this resolution, we committed ourselves to better consumer protection in the area of meat traceability by strengthening the indication of the country of origin of meat used in processed foods. a thorough reflection on labelling would then help to increase transparency and confidence in the agri-food sector, after the crises we have recently experienced.
in writing. in this resolution, the european parliament calls on the commission to submit legislative proposals to make it compulsory to indicate the origin of meat used in processed foods. following the mad cow crisis, the indication of the country of origin was made compulsory for beef. this obligation should now be extended to other food categories and cover all ingredients in processed products. the european union must require all operators, producers and intermediaries, to provide clear and intelligible labelling. this labelling could also enhance local production and short-distance services. consumers know that it is better to trust a well-identified chain to have quality products, rather than sacrificing a whole culinary culture for a cheap and tasteless product. in the background it is clear that the food trading system is the source of unacceptable deviations; it is no longer about producing to sell, but about buying cheaper to sell at the highest profit. it is therefore essential to return to a more transparent, clearer and more ethical system with fewer intermediaries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to continue its reflection and adopt a legislative proposal on the issue of meat labelling in processed foods. if we had voted against this resolution, we would have put an end to any debate on the matter. consumers are demanding more information and transparency and it is our duty to reconcile this with their diet after the crises we have experienced. it is all the more important to ensure that transparency in the light of the various national regulations, and i am thinking in particular of the rules governing gmos. the consumer has the right to know what is on his plate, whether the animal may have been fed gmos (depending on the member state of origin), and to make an informed choice. however, the increase in costs and administrative burdens will be a key point in future legislative discussion. we must strike the right balance between the interests of consumers and the competitiveness of our businesses. we must be careful that this proposal, which is relevant in its substance, does not become a gas factory.
in writing. this reform is necessary to ensure the traceability and safety of our food. there is still too much fraud today, and it is time to strengthen the european law which is too lax on the matter. it's a public health choice.
in writing. the motion for a resolution presented provides additional protection for consumers in the member states in terms of food safety and health control. the indication of the place of origin also favours the relocation of certain production activities which provide a certain guarantee of quality, particularly in view of the distortions which are evident in the union in this field. finally, it is an element that tends to reduce the asymmetry of information that the consumer may suffer, but also makes it possible to further segment the market for meat used in processed foods in order to promote competition between actors that respect traceability and origin requirements.
in writing. the labelling of the origin of meat incorporated in the prepared dish is essential to restore consumer confidence following the major agri-food scandal that affected many european industrialists and countries in 2013. however, the commission is alert to the fact that the availability of information is not enough. it must be highlighted and made clear. this will be the basis on which consumers can make informed choices. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution calling for the traceability of meat used. i would nevertheless expect the commission to also include in its proposals the type of slaughter and the method of feeding, gmo or non-gmo, which are essential information for consumers.
in writing. the mandatory country of origin labelling of meat already exists for fresh meat, but this requirement does not exist when meat is used as an ingredient in a processed product. the european parliament therefore calls in this resolution for consumers to be able to know the origin of meat in all food products. this is a real victory for european consumers! they have a right to full information. i personally would like to know where the meat used in the sausage i have just bought in metz comes from and whether it comes from france, europe or elsewhere. i am very happy that we have won this battle against the european right, which, in line with the business position, was against this labelling requirement!
in writing. the succession of food scandals in recent years has caused a shock and a strong distrust among consumers. the european union has a duty to respond to these fears by proposing appropriate legislation. the origin declaration already exists for unprocessed beef and will also apply from 1 april to other animal species. however, the agri-food industries argued that the requirement to label meat in processed products would cause an excessive cost increase of around 50%, which has yet to be proven. i am glad that the european parliament has taken the initiative to revive the debate on this subject, because it is a request from the citizens and the credibility of europe that is at stake here. we are now waiting for the response of the european commission, which has the power of initiative, but i am sure that it will also be keen to propose legislation that strengthens the traceability of the products we consume.
in writing. the motion for a resolution presented provides additional protection for consumers in the member states in terms of food safety and health control. the indication of the place of origin also encourages the relocation of certain production activities, providing a certain guarantee of quality, particularly in view of the distortions evident in the union in this field. finally, it is an element that tends to reduce the asymmetry of information that the consumer may suffer, but also makes it possible to further segment the market for meat used in processed foods in order to promote competition between actors that respect traceability and origin requirements.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the european commission to table a legislative proposal to make it mandatory to label (trace) all meat used in prepared dishes. after the horse meat lasagna scandal, it was our duty to restore consumer confidence by improving transparency and providing them with complete information about the products they buy.
in writing. i supported the parliament's resolution calling on the commission to legislate for the mandatory labelling of the origin of meat in processed products. a commission legislative text on the subject will help to strengthen food safety while reassuring the consumer. this is all the more necessary after the scandal of horse meat in lasagna. i would remind you that when this matter was brought to light i wrote to the president of parliament asking for a committee to investigate cases of fraud in the food sector and ways of strengthening controls. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission will have to show us that it is more concerned with the welfare of consumers than with the welfare of the food giants. i will therefore make sure that this request does not remain a dead letter.
in writing. i voted for this text because it allows for better traceability of meat and therefore greater consumer protection and the possibility for consumers to choose local products.
in writing. vote in favour of the resolution, which aims to make it compulsory to indicate the origin of meat in processed food following the various food scandals (spanghero and its lasagna made from horse meat). this has alarmed consumers, who are increasingly demanding quality and information about the products they buy. this traceability is essential for several reasons. it will enable the consumer to make an informed choice about the food they consume and support our french farmers who suffer from unfair competition and have long called for this traceability.
in writing. traceability of food is necessary to ensure health standards and to prevent new incidents such as the spanghero scandal. this resolution will allow meat to be traced, which will protect the consumer, who will be able to buy without risk, and will also allow him to choose local products. since this resolution is in favour of protecting the french consumer, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. following the 'horse lasagna' scandal, this resolution recalls the importance of food labelling and traceability and proposes to strengthen certain aspects of it. it welcomes the obligation, effective from april 2015, to indicate the country of origin for unprocessed pigmeat, sheepmeat, goatmeat and poultrymeat. it also stresses the importance of taking into account horse meat as meat used in processed foods, as well as beef, pork, sheep, goat and poultry meat, as it constitutes a significant proportion of meat used in processed foods. this lucid text admits that the labelling of the country or place of origin of meat and meat products does not prevent fraud. however, considering that a rigorous traceability system does indeed help to detect and combat possible infringements, it calls on the commission to make legislative proposals to make the indication of the origin of meat in processed foods compulsory, in order to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and to better inform european consumers. i vote in favour of the proposal, but i would like to remind you that neither lasagna nor horse lasagna are harmful to health.
in writing. in the face of the recurrent scandals affecting the agri-food industry, consumers are rightly demanding more than ever total transparency and enhanced or even guaranteed food safety. many people also want meat to be traced more completely, for example, by the method of slaughter, the method of feeding or the place of rearing. upstream, of course, there are producers who aspire to make a decent living from their work by making quality. downstream, there are consumers who want to eat safely. the problem, it must be said, lies in the middlemen, the large groups in the agri-food industry, who are only concerned with profitability and profit. the european union has in fact largely supported the latter for 30 years, to the detriment of the interests and food safety of consumers. however, there seems to be a slight downturn in the trend, as the union cannot ignore recent scandals and legitimate consumer complaints. in addition, this labelling should strengthen the position of national and local supply chains (short circuits that are much less polluting). for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which calls on the european commission to adopt a legislative proposal and to continue the discussion with a view to eventually achieving the indication of the country of origin for meat used in processed foods. i also supported amendments which stress that this new labelling, which will ensure greater transparency for the consumer, must not undermine the competitiveness of our agri-food businesses by unreasonably increasing the burdens and constraints on them. nor should this measure lead to an increase in the price for the final consumer.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks to ask the european commission for a legislative proposal on the indication of the country of origin for meat used in processed foods. in view of the future negotiation of a legislative proposal, we will have to strike the right balance between the interests of consumers, who are asking for such a measure, and the competitiveness of our companies. we must commit ourselves to more information and more transparency in this sector, it is the only way to reconcile consumers with their plates.
in writing. traceability of food is a major issue for consumer health and information (and therefore freedom). by opening up borders and imposing the principle of free movement, the european union failed to anticipate the risks of fraud, as was unfortunately seen in the 'spanghero' scandal. the indication of the country of origin proposed today is a first step and it is to be hoped that many others will follow (more precise location, type of livestock, feeding, method of slaughter, etc.). i therefore vote in favour of this resolution, which is still very limited but has the merit of paving the way.
in writing. this resolution gives the european parliament the opportunity to encourage the european commission to ensure the traceability of meat ingredients in processed food products. opinions on such a measure differ, as it may considerably increase the administrative costs for producers at the expense of consumers. that's an argument i hear, but the successive food scandals have demonstrated the desire of consumers, of all of us, to know what's on their plates. the labelling will be all the more a guarantee of the community origin of the foodstuffs. our continent offers a high standard which is a guarantee of respect for consumers and, in the same way, we must emphasize the quality of the work of its producers.
in writing. after the horse meat scandal in 2013, we need to respond to citizens' aspirations for traceability and transparency. that is why i supported this resolution calling on the commission to submit a legislative proposal making it compulsory to indicate the country of origin of meat used in processed foods. as with unprocessed beef and soon pork, sheep, goat and poultry meat, the compulsory indication of the origin of prepared meat will help to increase the non-price competitiveness of european agricultural production at the lowest cost. european farmers, who are subject to demanding production conditions, deserve recognition for their quality work. we will nevertheless be careful that the commission's proposal does not lead to an excessive increase in production costs for smes and artisans, many of whom are in the agri-food sector.
in writing. the european commission, faced with the horse meat scandals and the anger of consumers who rightly claim the right to know what they are eating and not to be deceived, has only come halfway. it has limited itself to labelling the origin of fresh beef without taking into account the meat used for processed products such as lasagna, pizza, chicken nuggets, etc. 90% of eu consumers want to know where the meat they eat comes from. the country of origin labelling of meat, whether processed or not, will meet consumer demands and enable consumers to make informed choices, ultimately leading to a more transparent supply chain and promoting short circuits instead of long food transport. labelling the origin of meat used as an ingredient will ensure better traceability along the food chain and will help avoid fraud when agri-food businesses choose their suppliers and products.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the indication of the country of origin of meat used in processed foods, in which we call on the european commission to come forward with legislative proposals to make this indication compulsory. of course we ask the commission to take account of the practical aspects of introducing such labelling, but we set a clear objective for it: consumers want to know what they are eating and they say so very strongly. i have been supporting this for a long time and i hope that things will now move forward. we can see that voluntary labelling in this area, which some advocate, is not enough. it is time to solve the mystery of the origin of meat in prepared dishes sold throughout the union, such as lasagna. this will increase transparency throughout the food chain and provide better information to the consumer. in concrete terms, this means extending the system we have already planned for fresh beef, which will be extended to all fresh meat from april 2015.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution to call for more transparency and information on the origin of meat in processed foods. the text comes as a commission report states that more than 90% of consumers surveyed believe it is important that the origin of meat used in processed foods is mentioned on the label. this vote will allow further reflection on the issue of meat labelling and it will be important to take account of the increase in costs and administrative burdens in the forthcoming debate in order to strike a fair balance between the interests of our consumers and the competitiveness of our businesses.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for legislation to make the indication of the origin of meat compulsory for processed products, as is already the case for fresh meat. the horse meat scandal in lasagna in 2013 has undermined consumer confidence, even though in this case the problem was fraud and not lack of indication. we must regain that trust and reconcile europeans with the content of their plates, through more transparency and information. more than 90% of consumers believe it is important that the origin of the meat is mentioned on the label of processed food products. however, i am very cautious about the way in which this indication is to be implemented and the additional costs it may entail for the 13 000 smes in the european sausage and meat sector. we will have to answer many questions: how can we avoid too much bureaucracy when a traditional pastry requires more than 20 different types of meat? how can the supply of meat from one country to another be guaranteed when prices and production fluctuate? a thorough impact assessment will be essential before any binding proposal is adopted.
in writing. although the horse meat scandal erupted a year and a half ago, the european commission has not yet made any regulatory proposal to close the legal loopholes. i supported the resolution making it compulsory to label the country of origin of meat used as an ingredient in processed products. this resolution was adopted by a majority of the votes cast by parliament at its meeting in strasbourg on 10 february. i regret that the epp has given in to the lobbying against the marking of the origin of meat. allowing europeans to choose processed meat products according to the territories is, however, a value-add generator. european farmers will be recognised, even though 89% of consumers in france consider it essential to be able to know the origin of the ingredients that go into the composition of a food product. while it is proven that the cost of a frozen parmentier hash would rise from only 3.14 euros to 3.16 euros, increased confidence could even make some consumers return to this type of products!
in writing. vote in favour of the resolution which aims to make it compulsory to indicate the origin of meat in processed food following the food scandal involving the company spanghero and its lasagna made from horse meat. this has alarmed consumers, who are increasingly demanding quality and information about the products they buy. this traceability is essential for several reasons: it will enable the consumer to make an informed choice about the food they consume, and it will support our french farmers who suffer from unfair competition and have long been asking for this traceability. the argument of the additional cost of labelling is not significant, since a study has shown that this additional cost would not exceed one euro cent.
in writing. this is a report describing the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and outlining the european parliament's vision for its future. the report underlines the need to strengthen political dialogue and calls on the acp-eu jpa to develop a common approach to define the post-2015 development framework. i voted against this report because it contains no notion of the fight against corruption in the acp countries. i believe that it is also essential, in the present context, to include in this report the notion of managing migration flows within the acp regions and countries, but also in their relations with the countries of the european union.
in writing. the report presented to the european parliament does not propose any strong measures to combat corruption in the political and economic circles in the acp countries, which often renders ineffective the large amounts of aid paid by the member states of the european union. the report does not deal with the control of migration flows, either between different acp countries or between these countries and the european union. the report, on the other hand, seeks to defend, through non-negotiable clauses, concepts such as gender identity, which have no place in such a text. in view of this lack of realism and sense of priorities, i voted against this report.
in writing. as a member of the acp-apa, i voted against this text, which is an inconsistent report that ignores the real problems. it particularly overlooks the fundamental issue of the management of migration flows, both within the acp regions and countries and in their relations with the countries of the european union. my colleague louis aliot had tabled amendments which called for these problems to be taken into account, but his committee chose to turn a deaf ear, as it did on the question of corruption, which is still endemic in some acp countries.
in writing. this report is a summary report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (africa, caribbean and pacific). it takes stock and describes the past years and discusses the future of cooperation in this context. the text is in fact a sort of prevert inventory, a catalogue of descriptions and summaries of actions without real ambitions, since the committee has rejected in its entirety the amendments tabled by our colleagues from the front party to incorporate the notion of corruption and the management of migration flows. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the report simply describes the past activities of the assembly and outlines the european parliament's vision for its future. as an alternate member of the delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i deeply regret that essential issues such as the fight against corruption and the management of migration flows are not addressed in the text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the joint parliamentary assembly of the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union (acp-eu jpa) brings together elected representatives from these regions. the aim is to exchange views on the various issues common to the assembly's member countries and to promote north-south interdependence. this report gives an account of the work of the plo. the gpa is a joint institution of the cotonou agreement and is proving to be very relevant, particularly with regard to the control of the european development fund (edf) and the conclusion and implementation of economic partnership agreements (epas). i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the european union's growing involvement in development.
in writing. another report that deliberately avoids the real problems. the report does indeed describe the assembly's past activities. but when it comes to discussing future prospects for cooperation between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific countries, no mention is made of the real issues at stake: not a word about cooperation in the fight against corruption or on the management of migration flows. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. this report rightly highlights the important role of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) - european union joint parliamentary assembly in the implementation of the cotonou agreement, including development cooperation under the european development fund (edf) and the conclusion and implementation of economic partnership agreements (epas). i believe that acp-eu parliamentary cooperation brings a necessary added value to relations between the european union and its partners in the acp countries by allowing the creation of a genuine space for open and democratic dialogue. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. with this vote, we support the activities of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly for development cooperation based on dialogue on the basis of our common values. this very large majority adoption highlights the need for all actors concerned, at local or international level, to be involved in development cooperation. this resolution also rightly underlines the major role played by this joint parliamentary assembly in monitoring the negotiations for the implementation of the economic partnership agreements (epas) so that they are in line with the objectives of the cotonou agreements.
in writing. the eu-acp joint parliamentary assembly brings together meps and elected representatives and officials from the african, caribbean and pacific states ('acp countries') signatories to the cotonou agreement. it is therefore the only international assembly in which representatives of these countries sit together, regularly, in order to promote north-south interdependence. as a member of this assembly, i welcome the open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue we have with our acp counterparts. since its creation, our assembly has been the source of many proposals, such as the development of rural development programmes and micro-projects adapted to the needs of specific communities, the creation of decentralised development policies and the enhancement of the role of women in the development process. today, it seems important to me that the acp-eu parliamentary assembly should consider a partnership that takes into account the economic development of africa as well as the strong historical cultural links between the two continents.
in writing. the report presented to the european parliament does not propose or suggest strong measures to combat major scourges in the acp countries, such as corruption in political and economic circles, which often renders ineffective the substantial aid paid by the eu member states, or the lack of control over migration flows, either between different acp countries or between these countries and the eu. the report, on the other hand, seeks to defend, through non-negotiable clauses, more vague concepts such as gender identity, which are less a matter of interinstitutional, international relations and economic development aid than the vital needs of the acp countries. in view of this lack of realism and sense of priorities, i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution on the work of the joint parliamentary assembly of the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european union (acp-eu). the report, which was put to the vote of meps, calls on the acp-eu joint assembly to develop a common approach to defining a common development framework for the period after 2015. i regret that the amendments incorporating the notions of combating corruption were rejected by the committee on development. the committee on development also rejected the proposed amendments to strengthen the management of migration flows within the acp regions and between these states and the european union. this management of intra-acp flows and between the union and the acp countries is vital to enable common development that allows the prosperity of the stakeholders while limiting the tragedies of illegal immigration.
in writing. the report presented to the european parliament does not propose or suggest strong measures to combat major scourges in the acp countries, such as corruption in political and economic circles, which often renders ineffective the substantial aid paid by the eu member states, or the lack of control over migration flows, either between different acp countries or between these countries and the eu. the report, on the other hand, seeks to defend, through non-negotiable clauses, more vague concepts such as sexual identity, which are less a matter of interinstitutional, international relations and economic development aid than the vital needs of the acp countries. in view of this lack of realism and sense of priorities, i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the work of the joint parliamentary assembly of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the european union. the joint parliamentary assembly plays a key role in monitoring the implementation of the economic partnership agreements, as well as in promoting development objectives. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. this is a summary report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (africa, caribbean and pacific). it takes stock of the exchanges and actions carried out in recent years and discusses the future of cooperation between the european union and the acp countries. this text is in fact a sort of inventory in the prevert, a catalogue of descriptions, wishes, old pontiffs, a list of summaries of actions without real ambitions since the commission has rejected all the amendments tabled by the frontist elected representatives, which were intended to incorporate the notions of corruption and management of migration flows. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the resolution welcomes the role of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and its objectives: the end of poverty, economic development, democratic stability, etc. the resolution even insists that "epas with african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries should serve development objectives, which take into account national and regional interests and the needs of the people, in order to reduce poverty and to ensure respect for fundamental human rights, including socio-economic rights, such as the right to food or the right to basic public services". it's just a lot of small talk. it also called on 'those states which have not yet done so to ratify the revised cotonou agreement'. it should be recalled that this free trade agreement allows the union to exempt its products from customs duties in the acp countries. liberalisation in which the acp countries have much to lose. in these circumstances, i am voting against.
in writing. this is a summary report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (africa, caribbean and pacific). it takes stock of the exchanges and actions carried out in recent years and discusses the future of cooperation between the european union and the acp countries. this text is in fact a sort of inventory in the prevert, a catalogue of descriptions, wishes, old pontiffs, a list of summaries of actions without real ambitions since the commission has rejected all the amendments tabled by the frontist elected representatives, which were intended to incorporate the notions of corruption and management of migration flows. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which brings together meps and representatives of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states signatories to the cotonou agreement on development cooperation. the text gives the results of this assembly for 2012 and 2013. it stressed in particular that the acp-eu assembly was taking on an increasingly political dimension and was showing an increased presence on the ground: information missions to mali, liberia and haiti, election observation missions to mali and madagascar.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it recalls and reinforces the role of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, of which i am the vice-president.
in writing. by refusing to address the issues of combating corruption and managing migration flows, the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is refusing to address problems whose resolution is a key issue for the future of relations between european countries and countries in the african, caribbean and pacific zones. our amendments on this subject were not accepted. the text therefore remains a partial view, far from the realities and urgencies. i can therefore only vote against.
in writing. in the context of the cotonou agreements, the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has become an indispensable actor. it is both a means of guiding and monitoring the european union's development policy. the european parliament must, by means of this resolution, express its opinion on the objectives and support of the european union for this assembly. as long as it allows for a knowledge of the terrain and a lasting relationship of trust, i vote in favour.
in writing. this resolution takes stock of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa). this text, for which i voted, recalls its role as a platform for open and democratic dialogue between members of the european parliament and those of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. the holding of the acp-eu jpa sessions every six months has not always been respected in recent years, so we call on the member states holding the rotating presidency of the council to respect this timetable. we also express our concern at the deterioration of the political and humanitarian situation in several acp countries and regions and recall the importance of the ppp in achieving the alleviation of crisis situations through dialogue and cooperation. agreements between the union and third countries must be a two-way street: we are in favour of economic partnership agreements that serve development objectives and guarantee respect for fundamental human rights, such as the right to food and the right to basic public services. finally, we invite the acp-eu app to invest in the definition of the development framework and the post-2015 sustainable development goals.
in writing. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is a forum for open and comprehensive dialogue between members of the european parliament and parliamentarians from acp countries on the implementation of the cotonou agreement, in particular the union's development cooperation policy under the european development fund (edf) and the conclusion and application of economic partnership agreements (epas). i supported this report, which reviews the parliamentary work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which met four times in 2012 and 2013, and highlights the important role of national parliaments, local authorities and civil society in monitoring and implementing european development policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it recalls the importance of exchanges between meps and parliamentarians from acp countries and calls for a strengthening of political dialogue to promote the principles of good governance and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in these countries. parliament expressed its deep concern at the political and humanitarian situation in certain acp countries and called in particular for better coordination in the fight against the ebola virus epidemic in west africa. the resolution also calls for a thorough analysis of the failures and successes of the cotonou agreements signed in 2000 with a view to defining a new mode of acp-eu cooperation for the period after 2020.
in writing. the report describes the past activities of the assembly and outlines the european parliament's vision for its future. however, key concepts such as the fight against corruption and the management of migration flows are absent from the text. our amendments on this subject have been rejected. i therefore vote against.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian crisis in syria and iraq is only getting worse, with fighting intensifying week by week. humanitarian aid can only be carried out properly in good cooperation with the local authorities. this is what is being done in iraq, whether it is with the government in baghdad or with the regional government in the autonomous kurdistan. it is high time we did the same with syria to help damascus cope with the humanitarian disaster caused by the actions of armed terrorist groups, first of all the islamic state, of course, but also the nusra front, the islamic front and the syrian revolutionary front, to name just a few of the dozens of groups that are setting the country on fire and causing bloodshed. the european union and its member states must now reopen their embassies in damascus, as the new tunisian government will soon do. the normalization of diplomatic relations with syria is an essential condition not only for the establishment of humanitarian cooperation but also for the resumption of security cooperation with the syrian services in order to combat the jihadist networks which threaten the stability of european countries.
madam president, what is happening in syria and iraq is a major challenge to europe and to the world, and it calls into question our beliefs about man and human beings. at the moment, although we are doing all we can and although the situation is difficult and complex, we are not doing enough. the european mobilization is not strong enough, and neither is the international mobilization. we need to do more. as far as humanitarian aid is concerned, we must do what we can: create humanitarian corridors, ensure that food arrives, help the neighbouring countries of syria, which can no longer cope, in particular lebanon, which is experiencing a 25% increase in its population. can you imagine what that means? we must act economically. we must cut off the financial resources of the islamic state group and we must impose an embargo on the oil that we may be consuming today in the european union and, why not, in france? obviously, we have to take military action. the european union must commit itself as such. it must also consider a common defence policy. we have to respond politically. we need to prioritize our enemies, especially in syria, and bring the entire gulf states, iran and turkey, around the table. we cannot act alone, we cannot act in isolation, we must gather more, we must act to fight terrorism because the threat - and this is what makes this war so complex - is not only external, but also internal. let us take all necessary measures to combat terrorism. i visited the al-zaatari refugee camp in jordan less than a year ago. we must do something so that those who are here, these women and men, do not lose all hope. let's do something before it's too late. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, do you not think that there is a need today for a complete review of the strategic and diplomatic options, given that france, britain and the united states were responsible for the dramatic policy of the arab spring? we must learn from this and no longer engage in diplomatic action with these countries without european consultation. you made a wish. of course, we have to do something about what's going on there. but do you not think that the european countries are entirely responsible for the crises in the near and middle east?
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i would like to remind you that the arab spring was the expression of the desire of these peoples to free themselves and to empower themselves, and that we have stood by them in this respect. do the western powers have a responsibility in this regard? yes, i think it is. the us involvement in iraq, which fortunately was not supported by france, weighed heavily. i believe that previous interventions in afghanistan also brought their share of shame and responsibility. the important thing now is to move forward, to mobilize. it's not wishful thinking. the whole international community must be aware of this danger.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my displeasure at the beginning of this speech. since the beginning of this debate, i have heard beautiful words, beautiful speeches of compassion and solidarity towards all those - especially children, women - who are being tortured and killed in syria, in this civil war, in this genocide they are suffering under the dictator bashar al-assad. i also hear many fine words spoken about those who are being killed in iraq and elsewhere, now in libya, by the islamic state, which is rampant in its murderous expansionism. finally, i always feel that we have few solutions and i would like to say to you, commissioner: go further! go further in humanitarian aid. if we were to compare our situation with that of lebanon, where 18% of the population are refugees, that would be equivalent to taking in 15 million people in france, 90 million in europe! then let's get to it! let's get more food aid, more humanitarian aid! let us then return to the negotiating table to put an end to the genocide perpetrated by bashar al-assad in syria.
in writing. the atrocities committed by da'esh have caused real humanitarian crises in syria and iraq. ethnic and religious cleansing, executions, persecutions, abductions, forced conversions, enslavement of children and women, torture, are some examples of the heinous crimes committed by da'esh. these crimes against humanity cannot go unpunished. we europeans must help to extinguish these hotbeds of extremism which are a threat to the security of the whole region, but also to the security of the whole world. we must act to stop the flow of foreign fighters who are joining the ranks of this terrorist organisation every day. we must also strengthen our security cooperation with our partners in the framework of the neighbourhood policy and the euro-arab framework. finally, we must step up our humanitarian aid to the civilian population. i therefore welcome the overall strategy presented by the commission and the high representative on 6 february to provide an additional eur 1 billion to finance the many ongoing political, social and humanitarian initiatives to combat the threat posed by da'esh.
madam president, the european dna is based on fundamental values which are shared and unchanging. these include equality, freedom, democracy, respect for human dignity, human rights and the rule of law. to join the european union, a state is required to meet the copenhagen criteria in order to guarantee respect for, protection of and promotion of fundamental rights. these criteria are not only valid at the time of accession to the union, but must remain a reality in everyday life. however, democracy and the rule of law are not equally protected in all member states. the rights and freedoms of many citizens are being flouted and ignored within the union itself. vulnerable people, roma, lgbt people, journalists, migrants and asylum seekers are the most affected by discrimination, marginalisation and even abuse. in order to live up to the spirit of copenhagen, parliament called for the adoption of an instrument for assessing compliance with european values in the union. it is essential that this regular monitoring mechanism is part of a permanent dialogue on fundamental rights and is accompanied by more effective infringement procedures and sanctions. it would be intended to complement the procedure provided for in article 7 of the treaty, which allows the suspension of a state's right to vote in the council in the event of a serious breach of european values - a sanction which is very difficult to implement today. does the commission intend to put in place this system in the near future to monitor compliance with the copenhagen criteria? (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, it is curious that i have not mentioned any countries. unfortunately, as long as there are violations of human rights in the european union, we will fight for their respect and that is why we are absolutely in favour of finally establishing a european rule of law.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the future of frontex and the european asylum support office (2015/2527 ((rsp)).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are countless reports of police harassment and abuse of asylum seekers and migrants trying to survive, for example in calais. there are countless dead, drowned, missing at sea, starving on makeshift rafts off lampedusa or istanbul. demagogues and populists all over europe exploit foreigners by playing on fears. so what are you waiting for? what is the council waiting for? does the council not see that by preferring to look elsewhere it is encouraging the xenophobic wave that is swelling all over europe? does the council not see that it is the retreat into oneself and not immigration that is undermining our societies? you know, politics is like air. it's when you need it most, when you don't. so show courage and show politics! ladies and gentlemen, heads of state, i say to you that frontex cannot guarantee that all measures will be taken to ensure that the mediterranean does not become a graveyard. it takes courage, but above all it takes a real common migration policy, with a safe legal route, especially for asylum seekers.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, mr coelho, you have just said very clearly that the problem of immigration must be tackled at its root, but you did not mention turkey. we know that many cargo ships carrying illegal immigrants actually leave from turkish ports. do you not think that negotiations with turkey should be urgently needed to put an end to this phenomenon? turkey is a highly developed country and is able to guard its coastlines. what do you think?
madam president, fortress europe and 'everything safe' can no longer be the alpha and omega of our common migration policy. on the contrary, we must do everything possible to ensure that the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers are respected. the real priority is not border surveillance but the coherent and effective implementation of the common european asylum system. in this respect, the european asylum support office has a key coordinating role to play, in particular for refugee resettlement programmes and the establishment of humanitarian visas. in order to enable easo to meet this ambitious and essential objective, it is important to substantially increase the european funds allocated to it. announced that the european union will provide financial support of up to eur 1 billion under its regional strategy for syria and iraq for the years 2015 and 2016. easo has a very important role to play in this strategy. the work is immense: to help the refugees on the ground - especially the most vulnerable - to improve the capacity of the asylum systems of neighbouring countries, but also and above all to step up our efforts to welcome more asylum seekers to the european union, under decent conditions and through safe and legal pathways. the majority of people who want to reach europe today are fleeing war and have the right to international protection. it is not a flow, it is not a pressure, but it is people: men, women and children in search of a better future.
boundaries are the only way to ensure the separation and respect for the integrity of two different spaces. most eu member states are part of the schengen area, which has extremely porous common external borders and which makes migration flows across the territories uncontrollable. frontex is equally as ineffective in controlling migration flows in europe; the european agency is accompanying illegal migrants across the union, leaving thousands of people to roam free in the various countries that are trying to enforce their sovereign rights. this management of migration flows has also encouraged mafia networks to maintain clandestine channels, particularly in the mediterranean, where too many people have already died. asylum policy is a matter for the member states and it is unacceptable that they should suffer the political errors of the european union, which, living outside reality, is unaware of the human disasters it is in fact sponsoring, nor of the need for sovereign borders that protect the peoples of europe. the only realistic future for asylum policy and border management is respect for the legal and territorial sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. i have decided, together with all the members of the national front, to call for the abolition of the european external border agency, frontex. there are two main reasons for this. firstly, frontex no longer guards our external borders, it no longer prevents anyone from entering the union illegally. it is a substitute for the "smugglers": they fill up trash boats with illegal immigrants and then let them sink off the italian or greek coasts, knowing full well that frontex agents have a moral obligation - and it is quite normal - to come to their rescue and bring them back to the mainland. frontex therefore facilitates the entry of illegal immigrants into the union. the second reason is the hypocrisy of the union. it has made it easier for people to move, and it has encouraged millions of unfortunate people to attempt the often deadly crossing. without the union, without schengen, we would not have the migration problems we have today. and we certainly do not think that those who are causing these disasters will be able to solve them. uncontrolled immigration is a consequence of the union, and only nation states have the capacity to respond to these problems.
for the greens/efa group mr president, in september we had the same debate in plenary at the initiative of the environmentalists. why would you do that? because of this drug for hepatitis c, sovaldi. you 're talking about 24,000 euros in spain; in france, it is worth 46,000 euros. when you know that over 25,000 people are affected, that's over a billion a year. if we continue like this, we will completely break the social security system of all our european countries. when i asked the commissioner barroso this question, he replied: 'the commission cannot do anything.' so i have some proposals for you. you said, "we give money to the pharmaceutical industry, under the imi programme". we gave 1.6 billion to the pharmaceutical companies. i am sure that research and development must be encouraged, but we must also ensure that these medicines are available. that means we give public money, but there's no patent. the drug companies make money selling their drugs, but that monopoly no longer exists. i have a second proposal to the commission: you are aware of the existence of the compulsory licensing process which each member state can use. i ask the commission to accompany the member states so that in an emergency - and there is an emergency, given all the figures given - we can help the states to abolish this patent and open it up to generics. the last proposal: it is absolutely necessary to adopt a resolution. a resolution was requested at the level of all the political groups. access to medicines is a demand of european citizens. we need to stop the race for the benefit of the labs for the benefit of the patients. we have a real responsibility in this respect, commissioner.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i have a question for mr messner. how do you explain the fact that at european level we are unable to make group purchases at least? we have the opportunity to create a grouping of the five largest countries - germany, france, england, etc. - and it is these same countries that refuse, because they want to keep sovereignty over the fixing of the price of medicines. one way to keep the price down is to shop in groups. we did it for vaccines, can't we do it for drugs? i wanted to know where you stand.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, do you know how much research and development costs a medicine? all the studies i've looked at say less than 10 percent. when you pay 10 euros for research, the community pays 100 euros. do you think that's normal? there is a need for more transparency on the role of research and development in relation to the medicines that are sold to us.
mr president, for the 28 member states, but also for a very large number of countries with a social protection system, it is fair to say that eur 30 000 to eur 70 000 for a cure for hepatitis c is a small sum in absolute terms compared with the costs of chronic hepatitis c, which has worsened to the point of transplantation, as has been the case so far. it is a small sum when we return to a nation men and women who have been cured, who can take up their place in their families and in their professional activities, and thus enrich the system of national solidarity. the only problem that will persist will be the possible diversion of treatment in large-scale trafficking, since the infection now affects 185 million people. on the other hand, the cost of each treatment is a problem in some developing countries. in this case, we believe that it is up to each member state to establish rules for international cooperation in the field of the transfer of know-how. europe could impose constraints on innovation, the only guarantee of access to treatment for the greatest number.
mr president, i would like to mention two major problems relating to access to medicines. firstly, we are faced with a veritable medical-industrial complex with considerable economic and political weight. the fact is that health care today is as lucrative a business as clothing or war. the patient often takes a back seat the mediator or vioxx scandals are only symptoms of a profit system applied to health. the major consequences of this system are the exorbitant costs of health care. the second problem is the drift away from an egalitarianism which tends to impose a right that can be challenged in all areas: the right to housing, education and medicine. it puts a huge amount of medicines - not always suitable - on the backs of the community for the benefit of a pharmaceutical industry that practices omerta to the extreme. "if you kiss too much, you will not be hugged well": it is important to turn our backs on an absurd system because it is profitable and unjust because it is egalitarian.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago, in the committee on civil liberties, during an important debate on the fight against cybercrime and cyber predators, we learned of appalling, disgusting and abject data and statistics concerning children: 4 million child pornography materials are currently circulating on the internet. the victims are younger and younger - 10% of the children are under two years old - the images are more violent, the encryption system is more sophisticated, and so on. a few weeks ago, i, for one, started trying to understand how things worked on the dark web and became more aware of its sordid and dangerous facets if need be. some networks, including tor and freenet, are being totally hijacked by cyber-pedophiles and, colleagues, we cannot stand idly by in the face of this indignity. reading the afa report, you can see that there was a 100 percent increase in reports of child pornography in 2014 alone. so we have seen, once again, that this child pornography on the internet is increasing more than ever. in the face of this horror, this abomination in our democracies, what are the answers? firstly, can we get a real evaluation report on the implementation of the european directive, the deadline for transposition of which - i remind the commission - was set at 13 december 2013? can we get some information on that? can the commission play its role as guardian of the treaties in this respect? secondly, what about the role and possible increase of the competences and powers of the europol joint cybercrime action taskforce and the cybercrime centre? thirdly - and i regret that you have not really spoken about this, commissioner - we must act to remove and block these sites in order to remove these horrors and this child pornography. thank you for bringing me answers.
mr president, we have lost a lot of time in the ten years since our first report. if we don't mobilize all our forces, we're going to lose this battle, because today everything is going faster and faster, you know, with the dark web or the deep web. we need a country-by-country assessment - we have already told you - and we know the answers. we must raise awareness among parents and children, train educators and, why not, set up a european hotline on this issue. we also need to be able to block and filter sites. clearly, europol's resources are paltry, so it really needs to be strengthened in order to better search for and find predators, identify victims and facilitate data sharing. ultimately, to protect our children, we need this unwavering mobilization, not just from our political leaders, but from society as a whole.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. today we are very concerned about mr rugurika's situation. he has been held in prison since january 20, following the release of a report that questioned the official version of the triple murder of italian nuns. in fact, in the report, a man claimed to have been involved in the murder of three nuns on behalf of burundian intelligence. after several requests by the prosecutor to reveal the identity of the interviewee and mr rugurika's refusal, he faces 20 years in prison for complicity in murder, breach of the secrecy of the investigation, suspicion of wrongdoing and breach of public solidarity. we therefore call for his immediate and unconditional release. burundi must respect its international commitments on human rights and press freedom, especially as presidential and parliamentary elections are due to be held in may and june. the credibility and the smooth conduct of these elections are at stake.
in writing. in saudi arabia, saudi blogger raif badawi was sentenced to ten years in prison in november 2014, a fine of 1,000 riyals (€22,000) and 1,000 lashes for what saudi authorities say is "insulting islam". he was said to have been guilty of apostasy by claiming that "muslims, christians, jews and atheists are all equal". he escaped an assassination attempt and his wife and children were forced to flee to canada as political refugees. his sentence was unanimously challenged, considered by some organisations, notably amnesty international, to be of "scandalous inhumanity", and many called for its annulment, such as the united states and the european union. flogging is prohibited by international law and can be considered an ancient practice. although i am committed to the principle of non-interference, i cannot remain indifferent to this event. the principle of non-interference should not overshadow the fact that saudi arabia has privileged relations with many european union countries, including france, and is suspected of having troubled relations with terrorist organisations.
mr president, the tragic case of the ornithi mass graves is the tree that hides the forest, it is the macabre face of a much larger operation: the 41-year turkish occupation of cyprus. the turkish state is guilty, but it also has accomplices - those who have chosen to enter into accession negotiations for almost ten years now. i think of mr.
in writing. the turkish army has occupied the northern part of cyprus since 1974. many abuses have been committed. we must defend the memory of those who were massacred and the defamed honour of a people who are members of the european union. you have only a meager resolve in the face of those machine guns at the checkpoint separating the island? how can we envisage a constructive discussion with turkey when, on the one hand, it does not recognise one of the members of the european union, cyprus, and, on the other hand, it occupies part of the territory of the latter by military means? once again, the european union is mired in legal and political inconsistencies and shamelessly disregards some of its citizens. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. this procedure for tax rescripts allows private actors to rely on a position of the tax administration on existing standards, following a question raised by them. it appears that tax write-offs have been widely used in some countries by non-european companies to reduce their tax contribution. this special committee seems more concerned with checking whether the actions of the states comply with european union law than with assessing abuses and deviations from this system. it is therefore an incomplete text which is not satisfactory in view of the issues at stake, but it is a first step in the right direction, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of this special committee to shed light on tax records, following the so-called 'luxleaks' case which jean-claude juncker believes he has 'wrongly' suppressed. i will be able to count on several colleagues on this committee whose integrity and competence give us hope of real results.
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures because, even if it is not a committee of inquiry, the establishment of such a committee is already a step forward for tax transparency in the union. following the luxleaks scandal involving commission president jean-claude juncker and the arrangements offered by luxembourg allowing 340 multinationals to avoid a large part of their taxes, particularly in france and europe, i also regret that this decision does not explicitly mention luxembourg.
in writing. a few weeks ago, mr juncker stood before this house as a champion of the fight against tax evasion. the man who transformed a country's economy based on declining industries into a hub for tax optimization/fraud is now the champion of the fight against tax fraud. the fanatics of so-called harmonisation carefully avoid touching taxation, a rare area where there is no harmonisation. yesterday it was luxleaks, today it is the former belgian socialist administration that has granted surreal advantages to multinationals, by oppressing the small ones in tax matters. their liberal successors continued to boast the charms of the flat country to the powerful of the planet, even recently in davos. we are far from the 'healthy' competition that the commission wants. is tax competition between countries using the same currency appropriate? it is high time we looked at these practices. but the people are roaring and you have nothing but a ridiculous commission. she won't save you. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. i was appointed to the committee. i believe that the differences between the member states of the european union in taxation are maintaining unfair competition within the union, which is harmful to the european economy. a single currency and a single market cannot coexist with 28 national fiscal policies that go in different directions. the committee will be chaired by my colleague alain lamassoure. i will propose a roadmap to end tax dumping in europe. in the context of globalisation, european countries must understand that their interest is not in ever more competition between them, but in more cohesion. this is a major political issue for the european union. i voted in favour of setting up this special committee.
in writing. a good initiative, which guarantees the taxpayer's legal security. the patriotic members of the econ committee are part of that committee and will try to defend the interests of the french taxpayer.
in writing. the decision proposes the creation of an ad hoc committee whose task, for six months, will be to present the tax practices of the member states of the european union and make concrete proposals to put an end to abuses in this area and to propose a harmonisation of corporate taxation in europe. given that the absence of tax harmonisation at european level may create a situation where tax decisions in one member state lead to tax losses or a reduction of tax or tax in another member state, it is necessary for the european parliament to address this issue. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the creation of this special committee, which will be chaired by my colleague alain lamassoure, president of the french delegation to the european people's party.
in writing. in this resolution we endorsed the establishment of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. i supported the desire to shed light on unfair tax practices in several member states of the european union.
in writing. following the recent scandals of tax evasion and fraud in europe, the european parliament decided to set up a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. this comprehensive overview is necessary and will inform the heads of state's council on future tax policy. this is not only a luxembourg issue, but also one of many other european countries which have given unusual tax advantages to certain entities or even to certain states, leading to undesirable distortions of tax competition. there is only one possible answer and it is urgent: fiscal harmonization within the euro area.
in writing. tax returns are an important issue and one which deserved to be addressed by the european union. this procedure allows private operators to rely on a position of the tax authorities on existing standards, following a question raised by them. however, it appears that tax write-offs have been widely used in some eu countries by non-eu companies in order to reduce their tax contribution. the only proposal is a simple draft survey which, moreover, seems more concerned with checking the compliance of states' actions with european union law than with assessing the abuses and deviations of this system. it is therefore an incomplete text and not satisfactory in view of the issues at stake, which is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. following the luxleaks case, another tax evasion scandal, i voted for the creation of a special committee to examine tax returns and other measures of a similar nature or effect. this committee will be composed of 45 full members, including our esteemed colleague bernard monot, economic strategist of the front national.
in writing. tax returns are an important issue and one which deserved to be addressed by the european union. this procedure allows private operators to rely on a position of the tax authorities on existing standards, following a question raised by them. it appears that tax write-offs have been widely used in some countries by non-european companies to reduce their tax contribution. the only proposal is a simple draft survey which, moreover, seems more concerned with checking the compliance of states' actions with european union law than with assessing the abuses and deviations of this system. it is therefore an incomplete text and not satisfactory in view of the issues at stake, which is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. meps voted in favour of the creation of a special parliamentary committee to examine tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect in the eu member states. the commission will be responsible for drawing up an inventory of tax practices in all member states and for making concrete proposals for greater european tax equity. i welcome that vote.
in writing. i supported the creation of a special commission on state-encouraged tax evasion, as it is vital to put an end to tax competition between states. these processes are draining national budgets of billions of euros at the very moment when they need it most to alleviate the devastating effects of the crisis on the population, and are further reducing the possibilities for action by the public authorities. i note, however, that the main groups in parliament, the right and the socialists, did not echo our request for a committee of inquiry which would have allowed for much more extensive investigations than a special committee. i also regret that this manoeuvre was hidden behind a tailor-made decision on the legality of a commission of inquiry. however, since the mandate remains the same as that which we proposed with the greens, i welcome the creation of this committee. the existence of this special committee and its monitoring of tax cooperation between member states and the commission's diligence in combating tax evasion will help to intensify the pressure against tax evasion, which costs european states nearly 1 000 billion euros a year.
in writing. following the revelations about organised tax fraud in luxembourg, my group tried to table a motion of censure against jean-claude juncker, the prime minister of luxembourg at the time of the events. we were unable to put it to a vote because of lack of support. i therefore supported the creation of a committee of inquiry into this matter, and now martin schulz has also refused to do so. we are being offered the consolation of a special commission with limited powers. we would have buried this case if we hadn't done it differently. nevertheless, in the interests of consistency in the fight against tax evasion, i am voting for this committee, with no illusions about its effects.
in writing. i abstained on the constitution of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures, since this is obviously not the creation of a committee of inquiry and, de facto, it will therefore not have the necessary means of investigation. the establishment of such a committee may appear to some as a first step towards tax transparency in the european union, but it is in reality a hoax and an empty shell. in the wake of the luxleaks scandal and the measures allowing arrangements offered by luxembourg to 340 multinationals to avoid a large part of their taxes, particularly in france and europe, i regret that nowhere here is luxembourg explicitly mentioned. this, in my view, says a lot about the effectiveness of this committee, which is really nothing special!
in writing. i voted in favour of the establishment of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. the committee, which will follow a series of investigations launched by the european commission into the tax records of multinational companies based in luxembourg, ireland, belgium and the netherlands, will have an initial term of office of six months and will be composed of 45 members. its role will be to examine the application by a member state or the commission of state aid law and union tax law as regards tax write-offs. it will make proposals to combat tax evasion and unfair tax optimisation.
in writing. despite my disappointment that this is only a special committee and not a committee of inquiry, the very creation of a committee is a good thing. of course, luxembourg is not even mentioned, although it is well known that this measure follows the scandal created by the revelations of luxembourg's tax practices. we cannot be optimistic about the large number of missions and the lack of resources of a special committee compared with a committee of inquiry. we hope that this is only the first step. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. some member states make extensive use of tax resets to offer tax advantages to foreign companies. this practice is dividing the european union and encouraging unfair competition within it. i therefore support the establishment of a special committee, chaired by my colleague alain lamassoure, to shed light on a perverse practice in democratic societies.
in writing. i supported the creation of the special parliamentary committee on tax rescripts and other similar measures by their nature or effect. this special committee is set up for a period of six months and will examine disclosures concerning the tax records of the member states; the commission will then make concrete proposals to put an end to the abuses.
in writing. i voted in favour of the creation of a special parliamentary committee whose task will be to examine tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect in the member states of the union. tax rulings are tax arrangements between a government and a company that are made in advance so that the company pays less tax. this special committee was set up following a series of investigations launched by the european commission against certain countries such as luxembourg, but also ireland, belgium and the netherlands. the issue is very serious and has consequences for our democracies. google, for example, paid only €7 million in taxes in france, out of a turnover of €1.6 billion in 2013. how do you explain that ? how can we justify the fact that the wages and incomes of the middle classes are overtaxed and that large foreign companies pay very little tax? proposals are needed to limit this injustice and european tax dumping as much as possible.
in writing. humanitarian assistance in iraq and syria can only be carried out properly in good cooperation with the local authorities. this is what is being done in iraq, whether it is with the government in baghdad or with the regional government in the autonomous kurdistan. i regret that the same cannot be said of the syrian government. i regret that this resolution puts the terrorist group 'islamic state' and the syrian government, which is the first to fight it on the ground, back to back. i also regret that only the islamic state group is mentioned, whereas dozens of islamist terrorist groups are carrying out the same acts on syrian territory. for these reasons i abstained on this text.
in writing. while it is essential to eradicate the threat posed by the 'islamic state' group, it is necessary to make a proper diagnosis of the responsibilities of each side, in order not to make the same mistakes. to throw back and forth between the islamic state and the syrian regime is quite irresponsible and unworthy of the abominable dramas that are playing out today. under the circumstances, i could only abstain.
in writing. i abstained on this motion for a resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, particularly with regard to the islamic state group. it is undeniable that the war crimes of the islamic state group, particularly against religious minorities, including christians, must be condemned and that a strong response must be made in order to save the populations and to stop the advance of this terrorist group accused of war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. nevertheless, i find it politically irresponsible to vote for this statement which puts the islamic state group and the syrian government back to back.
in writing. while i strongly condemn the deadly ideology and medieval practices of the islamic state group in iraq and the levant, i can only regret the lack of clarity on the instruments recommended against this threat. in addition, the consequences of this new interference should be carefully considered. the text even mentions sexual orientation, which seems to be far removed from the subject. i don't quite understand why the lgbt population would suffer more from the conflict than religious minorities, women or children. it is also questionable whether the syrian regime and the islamic state group should be treated as equals. i condemn the abuses of the islamic state group, but consider it irresponsible to put it on the same level as an internationally recognised government. so i refrained.
in writing. the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria is unprecedented. the involvement of the islamic state group is, of course, undeniable. human rights are violated daily with terrible violence. women and children are treated like slaves. young girls are forced into marriages with fighters of the "islamic state" group. anyone who does not follow the orders of the "islamic state" group is killed or beaten. we cannot allow any of them to commit such atrocities. we must continue to provide both military and humanitarian aid to the region. we must have a coordinated european response to this problem. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria is a real tragedy for the people concerned: persecuted christians, mass displacement of populations who are now forced to live far from their homes in appalling unsanitary conditions. we cannot stand idly by in the face of this tragedy. the resolution also had the merit of highlighting the responsibility of countries such as qatar and saudi arabia in financing the islamic state group. i had to abstain on this resolution, which links the crimes of the islamic state group with the - admittedly imperfect - regime of bashar al-assad. the fanatical persecution of the islamic state group cannot be compared to the actions of the syrian government. it is, from a geopolitical point of view, to risk losing a valuable ally in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. the european parliament strongly condemns the systematic, brutal and widespread violations of human rights and violence committed by the regime of bashar al-assad in syria and by daesh terrorists and other jihadist groups in iraq and syria. in the light of the deteriorating humanitarian and human rights situation in the region, it is crucial that the european union adopt and implement a coherent comprehensive regional strategy to stop daesh, coordinate efforts to alleviate the humanitarian crisis and end the conflict in syria and iraq. since there is an interdependence between conflict, humanitarian suffering and radicalisation, the elimination of the terrorist threat must be a priority and for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in the face of the horror of the violence perpetrated by the 'islamic state' group in iraq and syria, parliament had the duty to condemn in the strongest terms this barbarity. it was essential to recall the european union's firm support in the face of a catastrophic humanitarian situation. i welcome the very large majority vote for this resolution. the increasing number of radicalised european citizens leaving to join the ranks of the islamic state group poses a grave danger to europe. i am therefore in full support of the development of a common european strategy for the surveillance and control of jihadists and radicalised citizens.
in writing. the armed conflicts in syria and iraq are a major challenge for europe and the world, as they touch deeply on our conception of man and his supreme value. it is essential to fight the islamic state militarily in order to put an end to terror. all the eu member states must now be involved in this initiative and show their willingness to build a genuine common defence policy. but we must do more, also on the humanitarian side. humanitarian corridors must be established to ensure that food arrives, to help syria's neighbouring countries, in particular lebanon, destabilised by a 25% increase in its population. we must also act economically. we must cut off the financial resources of the islamic state group and impose an embargo on the oil it exploits. of course, political action is needed. we need to rank our enemies, especially in syria. and bring all the countries of the region, from saudi arabia to iran to turkey, around the table.
in writing. the human and humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria must compel all european and world states to respond. too many human lives have been sacrificed for nothing; it is our duty as elected representatives to urge europe to react. its action is still too slow and too small for us to be satisfied with.
in writing. the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria is growing due to the abuses committed by the islamic state group. we can only stop these abuses if we cooperate with the local authorities. this is what is being done in iraq, with the central government and with the kurdish regional government. it is high time we did the same with syria to help damascus cope with the humanitarian disaster caused by terrorist groups. the european union and its member states must re-establish diplomatic contacts with syria and re-open their embassies in damascus, as the new syrian government has just done. the normalization of diplomatic relations with syria is an essential condition for ensuring cooperation with the syrian services in humanitarian matters and in security matters, which will enable us to combat jihadist channels.
in writing. i voted strongly in favour of this resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, particularly with regard to the islamic state group. the resolution strongly condemns the human rights violations and abuses committed by the regime of bashar al-assad and by the terrorists of the 'islamic state' group in iraq and syria. it then proposes several avenues and makes several urgent requests: that the european union should have a genuine comprehensive regional strategy, that the european commission should make a greater financial contribution to respond to this unprecedented crisis, that the international community should be more involved. it also highlights, and this is a point that is particularly close to my heart, the situation of children and girls who are victims of sexual violence every day. more than 200,000 people killed in syria, more than 7.6 million people displaced inside syria, 5.2 million people in iraq in urgent need of humanitarian aid, etc. we need a rapid response to this humanitarian crisis, to the violence and the horrors, the barbarism faced by the local population.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. it is urgent that the international community fulfils its commitments by stepping up humanitarian aid and assistance to the millions of people affected by the crisis in iraq and syria, especially in view of the harsh winter conditions in the region. the european union must have a comprehensive regional strategy to stop the islamic state group, to help alleviate the humanitarian crisis and to end the conflict in both syria and iraq. this strategy should include support for countries hosting refugees, consultation with regional partners to combat terrorist financing, arms deliveries and the influx of foreign fighters, and to combat extremist violence. finally, i believe that responsibility for the serious crimes committed by all parties during the conflict, including crimes on religious or ethnic grounds, must be established if there is to be a lasting peace.
in writing. humanitarian assistance in iraq and syria can only be carried out properly in good cooperation with the local authorities. this is what is being done in iraq, whether it is with the government in baghdad or with the regional government in the autonomous kurdistan. i regret that the same cannot be said of the syrian government. i regret that this resolution puts the terrorist group 'islamic state' and the syrian government, which is the first to fight it on the ground, back to back. i also regret that only the islamic state group is mentioned, whereas dozens of islamist terrorist groups are carrying out the same acts on syrian territory. for these reasons i abstained on this text.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the humanitarian crises in iraq and syria caused by the atrocities perpetrated by the islamic state group and all the jihadist groups active in those countries. the resolution calls for increased humanitarian aid to the civilian population, the organisation of an international donor conference and the definition of a comprehensive european strategy for the region, in particular to block these terrorist groups.
in writing. i supported the joint resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria as it takes an uncompromising view of the abuses committed by the islamic state group against the populations under its control and calls for determined action against this entity. i welcome the fact that this resolution calls for a comprehensive strategy against the islamic state group, including its sources of funding, including oil smuggling, which i had called for as early as september 2014. i also support the call for aid and protection for the civilian population under international humanitarian law, as proposed in this text. unfortunately, the resolution overlooks one of the causes of the current catastrophic situation: the invasion of iraq in 2003. the call for decisive action against the islamic state group must nevertheless be supported. that is why i voted in favour of this text. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. the national front meps abstained on the resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, because it puts the terrorists of the islamic state group on the same level as the syrian government, however objectionable it may be. it seems that the established political groups in this parliament, as well as the american government, the commission and the council, have learned nothing from their interference in several arab countries. by claiming to support the so-called arab spring, they have in fact supported, or even (at least indirectly) armed terrorist groups like the islamic state group. the resolution put to the vote contains no self-criticism. the consequences of the policy choices of the united states and the european union in relation to iraq and syria are catastrophic. the list of atrocious and inhuman crimes committed by jihadists is endless: mass executions, beheadings, stoning, crucifixions, ethnic and religious cleansing.
in writing. this text on the humanitarian situation in iraq and syria gives a relatively informed view of the dire situation of the people affected by the conflict that is tearing the syrian-iraqi zone apart. twelve million syrians (out of a population of 22 million) are in urgent need of humanitarian aid, and 4 million have left the country. the situation is also catastrophic for iraqi refugees who have fled the advance of the islamic state group. but as usual, these well-meaning goals go hand in hand with full support for the us-led coalition in the region. the text is silent on the causes of this situation and the responsibilities, first of all those of the united states, which, since its invasion in 2003, have exacerbated the ethno-religious divisions in iraq, without which the group "islamic state" could never have met its military successes. i abstain in order not to oppose requests for humanitarian aid in the area, without approving the political inconsistency of this text.
in writing. i abstained on this motion for a resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, in particular with regard to the islamic state group. it is clear that the war crimes and barbaric acts perpetrated by the islamic state group against religious minorities (christian minorities in particular) must be strongly condemned and that a strong response must be made in order to save the populations and to stop the advance of this terrorist group, which is responsible for war crimes and ethnic cleansing. however, it is particularly geopolitically irresponsible to vote for a resolution that puts the islamic state group and the syrian regime back to back.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which warns of the dramatic humanitarian situation in syria and iraq and strongly condemns the barbaric abuses committed by the islamic state group in the name of sharia law, in particular against ethnic and religious minorities. the text stresses that the eu and its member states have already spent almost €3.5 billion on humanitarian aid in syria and iraq, but that we must go much further, by concentrating all our efforts on defeating the islamic state group and strengthening our support for the syrian and iraqi peoples.
in writing. the resolution voted by the european parliament today calls on the union and its member states to present a comprehensive solution to the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria. taking into account that the inadequate response of the international community to the syrian crisis has fostered the emergence of the 'islamic state' group, it calls on us to assume our responsibilities. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the terrorist groups. we want to stress the need for coherence and a long-term strategy for the european union in the region. this will be the subject of my report on the prospects for stability and the security challenges in the region, which will recall that the security, political, economic and social crisis it is going through can only be resolved by coordinating security, political, economic and social action.
in writing. there is no point in being outraged at the abuses committed by the so-called islamic state if one continues to ostracize the syrian regime. this is not to say that bashar al-assad is blameless, of course, but defeating this particularly violent terrorist organization should be a top priority. rather than equating the so-called islamic state with the syrian state, it would be better to attack the real allies of islamic fundamentalism, starting with qatar and saudi arabia. i therefore prefer to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. the situation in the middle east has continued to deteriorate and the international community is easily left unarmed in the face of such abuses. the resolution calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. their living conditions require special attention, and that is why i am in favour of this resolution. the action of the european union and the countries bordering the conflict zone will only be more effective through the establishment of priorities for action.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria following the intolerable actions of the bashar al-assad regime and the terrorist group 'islamic state'. i strongly condemn any violation of human rights and any violation of international humanitarian law, especially when it is of such a violent nature. the figures are alarming: in syria, more than 200,000 civilians have been killed and more than 7.6 million people have been displaced. in iraq, more than 5.2 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance and protection. we must do more and act urgently in the face of the humanitarian crisis, but also put in place a comprehensive regional strategy with all regional actors against the islamic state group. as we know, the political situation in this geographical area is strategic for the global fight against terrorism and for the protection of all the peoples, whether in the middle east or in europe.
in writing. the humanitarian situation in syria and iraq in areas controlled by the 'islamic state' group is alarming and i remain deeply concerned about it. the actions of the bashar al-assad regime and terrorist groups have caused a real humanitarian catastrophe. in syria, more than 200,000 people have been killed, more than 7.6 million people have been internally displaced, and iraq hosts more than 233,000 syrian refugees. i voted in favour of this resolution so that the european union (eu), the member states, regional partners and the international community can continue to act. the eu has just allocated an additional €1 billion for 2015 and 2016 to help the region and contribute to the building of lasting peace. it is also important that the eu implement as soon as possible the comprehensive strategy it has just published to combat the crises in syria and iraq and the threat posed by the islamic state group.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which strongly condemns the systematic, brutal and widespread violations of human rights and the abuses committed by the bashar al-assad regime, by the terrorists of isil and the islamic state group and by other jihadist groups in iraq and syria. the situation is catastrophic: in syria, 7.6 million people are displaced and 12.2 million need humanitarian aid. in iraq, 2.1 million people are internally displaced and 5.2 million are also in need of urgent assistance. the european union must increase its aid and assistance to the people affected by these tragedies and finally develop a comprehensive regional strategy to influence the end of the conflicts, by combating the financing of terrorism, arms deliveries and the influx of foreign fighters, and by using all the means of political, economic and diplomatic pressure at its disposal.
in writing. we shall abstain on this text. we condemn the islamic state group, but it is unacceptable to put the syrian state and its president bashar al-assad on the same level of responsibility as a terrorist, criminal organisation, whose funding and support is opaque. the syrian regime is facing a largely foreign army that is attempting to illegitimately overthrow the country's institutions and install an intolerant and intolerable politico-religious regime.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, dear commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation by the european commission of the energy union strategy was highly anticipated, because we need clearer and more robust european energy and climate policies now than ever. jean-claude juncker announced it as one of the major projects of this new parliamentary term, and the proposal presented to us today is certainly a very important step forward in responding to the challenges facing europe. these challenges are many: the internal energy market, which is not sufficiently integrated, a high gas price, which is weakening our european industry and contributing to high energy costs for our citizens, a fragile international environment and growing uncertainties among investors. we must therefore mobilise to make the energy union a success and a bridge to achieving the objectives that the european union has set itself, both for the reduction of greenhouse gases and, also and above all, for our competitiveness and the necessary reindustrialisation of the european union. security of supply - you have spoken about this - is paramount and the european union provides 53% of the energy it consumes. the recent events in ukraine therefore require us to be vigilant and to promote greater energy independence. to do this, we must make complementary use of all the different energy sources available, with a market-based approach. this energy security also and above all requires the creation of a more integrated internal energy market with better interconnections, and i welcome the european commission's intention in this regard. the european commission should also strongly encourage member states to apply the existing rules before adding new ones. energy efficiency must be our main concern if we are to avoid waste. it's the most important thing. we must not abandon the millions of european citizens who live in energy poverty. research and innovation must also be supported in this area. the energy transition offers us the opportunity to use different energy sources. i would like to conclude by saying that we are really working on a project here and that you can count on us, commissioner, to help you with this project. but for that we absolutely need the support and political will of the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, your energy union project suffers from three design flaws. firstly, it is a violation of subsidiarity. only states can build their own energy security. they are the essential links in the european energy security chain. it is the states, with their rules and policies, that build and solidify this chain. you're breaking this chain. secondly, your project neglects the security of supply of our states by promoting spot markets at the expense of long-term and very long-term bilateral and multilateral contracts. while the market is only thinking six months or a year ahead, this long-term vision is absolutely necessary for the financing of energy infrastructure. and you're destroying it! thirdly, your project creates a major geopolitical risk, by the willingness to attack a safe, reliable supplier. in the past, by imposing your rules on russia - as you impose your rules on our states - you have broken south stream and the security of our energy supply. your european energy security policy is a european policy of energy insecurity.
mr president, yes, we need to improve energy efficiency. yes, we must continue to invest in research. yes, we can hope that the development of renewable energy will allow us to reduce our energy dependence along with our greenhouse gas emissions. but it is clear that europe cannot get rid of russian gas, as jérôme ferrier, for example, president of the international gas union, told us in a recent interview with le figaro. this was the day after the south stream project was abandoned because of the new cold war desired by the americans and accepted docilely by european leaders. the new executive director of the international energy agency, mr birol, said just yesterday evening at a dinner-debate at the european energy forum that this was self-evident, and the representatives of the european commission, away from the cameras, could not say otherwise. i understand that the baltic peoples, and other peoples of europe who lived under the soviet yoke, have a bad memory of their great russian neighbour. but if, as you keep saying, europe is peace, then it is time to put aside these old grudges and think about defending the vital interests of our peoples. your energy union with russia will happen or it will not happen!
in writing. i want to give my full support to the new initiatives of the european commission to make the energy union project a reality. i am convinced that the energy challenge is an opportunity for the european union. energy is a key issue for european citizens and this project will enable the european union to develop a more coordinated and effective energy policy that will meet the challenges of energy security, the competitiveness of our companies, the energy poverty of thousands of our citizens and the gradual transition to a low-carbon economy. i am particularly pleased that the commission is keen to make progress on energy efficiency and interconnections within the internal market and that it is committed to developing a strategy for research and innovation. however, not everything depends on the european institutions, and it will be necessary for the member states to apply the existing rules correctly, as well as those we will be voting on in the coming months.
in writing. the strategy for a 'resilient' energy union, which can withstand supply difficulties or significant price fluctuations, hides some very dubious intentions. for example, there is a fear that the european union's intervention in the interconnection of networks will result in a decline in energy production, with each state relying on its neighbour to produce for it. this is what germany has been doing since it abandoned nuclear energy in favour of renewable energy. as renewable energy sources, germany imports nuclear energy produced in its neighbours, thanks to the interconnection of electricity grids. similarly, the european union's commitment to combating climate change is hampering our growth by placing heavy financial constraints on our own industries while our international competitors are scrambling to get their hands on it. finally, by preventing russia from building new gas pipelines, as was the case recently with south stream, the european union is preventing the diversification of europe's gas supply routes. in the end, this is the crux of the problem: the energy union, a seemingly virtuous project, has no other purpose than to prolong an absurd conflict with russia, to the sole benefit of the united states.
mr president, the eurogroup has left a simple choice for the government of mr tsipras, recently appointed by the greek electorate to challenge the disastrous policies of the troika. either remain in the euro and quickly betray its anti-austerity promises, or regain monetary freedom by leaving the euro so that it can really change its policy. the agreement reached in brussels confirms that the government of alexis tsipras has chosen the euro and, therefore, betrayed its campaign promises. the capitulation to the blackmail of the european union and germany is total and we can bet that very soon this government will - alas! - fall into the abyss of unpopularity. in the light of the greek episode, all europeans will have become aware of the now radical incompatibility between the euro and democracy on the one hand and the euro and prosperity on the other. more than ever, the front national wants to remove france from the euro dictatorship by giving it back control of its currency, its budget and its borders, to allow it to break with under-growth, mass unemployment, over-indebtedness and austerity.
mr president, on behalf of the french delegation of the epp group, i am pleased that the european council has devoted most of its work to the fight against terrorism. we had suggested it in the wake of the paris attacks, and the new tragedy in copenhagen has only underlined the urgency of common action. if there is one subject which must be dealt with together at european level, it is the threats which we all face, and the first of these is international terrorism. mrs le pen has been interested in the case of greece, which is important. i shall be dealing with the case of france, which i believe is even more so. i welcome, mr president of the commission, the position you have announced on france. for the third time, france has failed to honour its most solemn commitments. in your own words, commissioner, she is now under increased surveillance. it is a position of distrust, and unfortunately justified. the union will keep him in line. shorter than in greece, because if i understand correctly, it will have three months, where the greek government has six months, to bring in 4 billion extra savings this year and to specify the concrete reforms that will bring in 16 billion extra savings in 2016 and then in 2017. thank you europe, when you force a government without a majority and without courage to make the reforms on which the country's salvation depends!
mr president, i think it is very positive that many of us in this house are reaffirming our support and solidarity with the new greek government and through it with the greek people, who have been sorely tried in recent years. i think this is a positive thing because when i listened to a number of leaders - and especially the conservative leaders - after the council, i had the impression that some of them felt that the greek people had voted wrong and that they should pay for that vote. i believe, on the contrary, that our duty as europeans is to help greece, to help it of course to restructure an unsustainable debt - it has been said - to really reform its taxation and to revive activity. this is all the more important to me because i am a passionate european and i regret the unfortunate remarks of the president of the commission, who suggested that democracy should end where the treaties begin. i believe that if we are passionately european, we must not give europe the face of a disciplinary injunction and an obsession with the prisoners. i believe, on the contrary, that we must seize this new political opportunity, this new stage for europe.
in writing. seven years after the bankruptcy of lehmann brothers, europe is still deeply shaken by the negative economic and social consequences of the crisis. it has served as a sign of the weaknesses of economic and monetary union: the euro area is on one foot an integrated monetary policy implemented by the european central bank but suffers from the complete lack of coordination of the economic policies of the member states. while living standards of europeans converged upwards through a process of catching up with the least developed countries, there has been a divergence in economic and social performance since 2008. if this trend continues, the cohesion of the euro area and support for community construction could be called into question. this situation cannot last any longer, which is why the eurozone must stop being a reform house imposing austerity and now aim for social, ecological and energy excellence by embarking as soon as possible on fiscal harmonization - and in particular corporate taxation - the fight against tax havens, the introduction of minimum wages in all states, the financing of the investments essential for the transition to a decarbonised economy.
in writing. the arms race did not last very long after all. the new greek government has already yielded to the troika's demands and other injunctions. so the agreement reached by greece will certainly not be in the interests of the greek people, nor in the sense of economic recovery. mr tsipras will have chosen to bow to brussels. he has chosen the euro over democracy, the euro over growth. there is no doubt that his government will soon be overtaken by unpopularity, for which it is justified. the situation in greece is the direct result of the disastrous monetary, financial and economic policies of the troika. today, it is high time to break with this supranational and eurocratic system, which is ruining our economies and our peoples. we must break with austerity measures. france must regain full national sovereignty, including control of its budget, its currency and of course its borders.
president of ecb. - madam president, honourable members, it is not going to be easy to respond to all these – more than questions, statements really. so i will only say a few words about the interaction between our monetary policy and what is called economic policy: namely structural reforms. we have two issues here: one of substance, that concerns the interaction between supply and demand, and one of legitimacy. as far as the substance is concerned, we have to see that the present economic situation of low output, big economic slack in the euro area and great cross-country differences, with a decline in potential output as well, is mostly due to declining investment and increased structural employment. but first and foremost, the crisis that started in 2010-2011 was a combined effect of several things that went wrong in the financial markets, but also a total loss of confidence. when we stabilise financial markets, confidence in the financial markets returns first, but confidence in real investment takes much longer, and now we see the first signs. so, all in all, the outlook is more positive than it was a few months ago. it is pretty natural: to make a financial investment, confidence can be, in a sense, easier to get back than making a real investment that is going to last for many years. but is monetary policy by itself going to create growth, employment? you seem to give a lot of responsibilities to the ecb; it has far fewer, in fact, than what you seem to be willing to give it. can monetary policy produce growth by itself? the answer is no. we know that monetary policy can still determine the basic, necessary conditions for growth, but then you have to have an environment that is growth friendly. you have to make the necessary structural reforms. i often give an example: we have taken unprecedented monetary policy expansion measures which certainly made it easier for the banks to give credit. but if someone, for example a youth, was to open a shop and before opening the shop had to wait nine, ten months for the permit, and having got the permit, had to pay immediately a heavy tax on it, what incentive do you think this person has in borrowing money from the banks? that is what i mean by structural reforms; that is what i advocate, and i do not think i am infringing on other fields of legitimacy when i advocate the need for structural policies, because these policies will make our monetary policy infinitely more effective than it is. so that is why, as a central banker, i feel perfectly right in urging governments to undertake these monetary policies. they are essential and a good complement for our pursuit of the primary objective of price stability. certainly, many of you said that we need to reconsider the transmission channels. one lesson from the crisis is certainly that the banking channel upon which this continent has relied for all its history is not enough and has proved to be much more fragile than capital-market-based economies. to some extent this is already happening, and capital markets in fact have expanded; bond issuance on capital markets has expanded greatly in the last two years. but capital markets are not yet shaped for smes. most of the credit to smes still comes from the banks. that is why the ecb, through the creation of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) – and, frankly, even before, by national supervisors – has pursued the objective of strengthening, making the financial intermediaries, the banks, more and more resilient so as to make them able to give credit. but we certainly should work more and make sure that this capital market union that we talk a lot about also has as one of its potential beneficiaries the smes: those entities that are not large enough to issue bonds on the capital markets. some of you touched on the conflict of interests, and there are different potential conflicts of interest one can touch upon. the first is that we do monetary policy, and we also do supervision. the european parliament has been heavily involved by many of you in making sure that this proper separation would be designed exactly to avoid these conflicts of interest, and frankly i must say that, since the ssm became operative a few months ago, i do not see much of it now. but that, i should say, is really thanks to most of you, or to those of you who have worked on this. someone said that we are subject to the banks and we do the will of the banks. the only answer there is: just ask them; ask them what they feel. then there is another conflict of interest: the presence of the ecb in the troika and how would this square with outright monetary transactions (omt) and quantitative easing (qe). with the omt, the opinion that the european court of justice (ecj) has issued says that we should look. it did not say that there is a conflict of interest; it says that we should look further, and we are doing so. for omt countries we are doing so precisely to see whether our role in the troika could be in conflict with our role as provider of omt. so at this stage i can simply say: rest assured, it is not something that we ignore; we are seriously thinking about this. this conflict of interests does not arrive at all with qe. qe is a broad-based monetary policy expansion that has nothing to do with programme countries or not. it so happens that in certain countries which do not have a programme or do have a programme there are certain restrictions on the amount of bonds that we can purchase. but that is nothing to do with having a programme or not having a programme. let me respond to two what i might call popular mistakes. the smp profits: you still believe that the smp profits are owned by the ecb and are kept there? that is not so. the smp profits, like any other profit, have been distributed to all the central banks – members of the ecb – and the central bank members of the ecb have transferred their profits to their national budgets. and the national budgets have transferred their profits to greece. so they are there, available for financing. (interjection from mr marias) no, no, no: agreed to transfer the equivalent of income made by the euro system on the smp portfolio to greece as grants out of their own budgets as long as greece complies with the programme. (objections from mr marias)
president of ecb. - madam president, as i said, this is a fairly popular mistake, but it is not true. the ecb transferred these profits to the member banks. the member banks transferred these profits to the national budgets, and these profits are now available as grants out of their own budgets as long as greece complies with the programme. therefore this operation reflects a commitment by member states, not by the ecb. there is no euro system involvement in this operation. someone touched on the waiver. let me make it clear that the issue of the waiver is an issue of rules. the ecb accepts from the banks of all countries bonds, government bonds, as collateral only if these bonds are rated above a certain threshold. in the case of greece, these bonds were below this threshold, and years ago, when greece accepted the programme and was complying with the programme, we said that maybe we can waive this threshold and accept these bonds as collateral anyway. the thinking behind this was that maybe with the programme, the economic situation will improve to the point where these bonds become better rated, so we can accept that. but when the waiver decision was taken, the governing council clearly stated that if it did not assess the presence of a programme, the waiver would be lifted. you say no; we say yes; we do this. we are the ones who actually wrote the minutes of that decision. at some point we decided that there were no other conditions for a successful completion of the review of the programme. so the ecb had no choice other than to lift the waiver. having said that, we are ready to reinstate the waiver as soon as the governing council decides that the conditions for a successful completion of the programme are in place. my final comment is about the future genuine monetary union. it is not true actually; i never said anything about that. i said what i thought i could say in a speech given in helsinki two or three months ago, if i am not mistaken. but here is exactly a field where a central banker can only point out the fragility of the present construction – which, i fully agree, is a fragile construction – and possibly in general terms what the next steps could be. it is pretty clear that an institution-based integration is much stronger than a rules-based integration. the first type of integration is exactly supplied by the example of monetary policy. there we have successfully, in a sense, integrated our monetary policies. if we go back to the time before the euro, we had a rules-based monetary policy in a sense – you remember that, before the euro? in the budgetary policy we have an integration that is rules-based – and which is the more successful of the two? that is what i basically explored very briefly in the speech given in helsinki some time ago. finally, on fragmentation, i think the ones who said that it has taken time for our monetary policy to go and find its way through the economy are absolutely right. it has taken a long time. we started with monetary expansion – monetary policy – almost three years ago, at the end of 2011, and we have started seeing the first positive signs – i would not say now; we have been seeing this in the last two or three or four months. having said that, we have got to be aware that not all countries are the same. in some countries monetary policy – our monetary policy expansion – was fully transmitted through the economy and immediately produced good effects, and in other countries it did not. and so we should also ask ourselves: why is this so? what were the initial conditions that made monetary policy effective in one part of the union and not effective in other parts?
madam president, we are discussing the annual report on the ecb, and this is not against the commissioner – i perfectly understand that mr draghi has to leave – but we need some forward guidance, madam president, on the way the debate is organised. we had time-slots distributed. if we had known before, we would have given the floor only to one of us; but to say now that we have to discuss with an empty chair – even coming from france, i do not like la politique de la chaise vide. if you allow me, i ask you please to tell the president that either we have the time to discuss and to use our slots, or we close the debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do indeed regret, as does my colleague mr coburn, the departure of mr draghi, who by his absence is showing his democratic contempt for all the people's elected representatives, who will remember this in due course. the ecb continued its long-term lending programme to banks with tltros in 2014. officially, this is to help the banking system, by means of preferential loans, to open up financing to the real economy. the ltros' 1 trillion in liquidity injections had mainly enabled banks to improve their financial results by speculating in more profitable sovereign securities. the fact is, however, that credit is not being provided, banks are not lending, and this is particularly true for smes. the bidegain report highlights both the difficulty of accessing credit and the interbank crisis, which smes are still paying the price for. this is particularly the case in france, where economic growth is in a desperate slump. the situation is all the more serious as in the euro area more than 70% of financing of the economy is carried out through banks. the ecb has therefore failed and this year's qe plan can be expected to further depress the balance sheet in a significant way. this effort will also be in vain. no concrete counterpart from private banks to finance households and businesses was imposed. in the end, the only real winners are still the private banks and the financial markets.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, since mr draghi has had to leave us, i am addressing these words to you. we are now assessing mr zalba's report on monetary policy and the central bank's performance in 2013, a year in which the fall in inflation was clearly not anticipated, and this leads us to look at what has happened since then. fortunately, the way in which the central bank has decided, in complete independence, to implement a quantitative easing programme to combat this deflationary risk is a measure to be welcomed. it is a historic move, undertaken independently, in accordance with the definition, which the central bank, inspired by others, has been able to stop, and which we welcome. but the president of the central bank also noted the way in which, for the first time, the minutes of the meetings of the governors were published. as a former chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i can only welcome this because it is a permanent demand of this parliament, even if this good news is obviously counterbalanced by the premature departure of mr draghi today. as regards the question of deepening economic and monetary union, he mentioned it as an essential element in consolidating the euro, and i share his view. but i have, i must say, a very great concern. the normal aim of this debate was to revive the work which had been started under the previous commission with the blueprint, the report by the four presidents, or the report by this parliament, under the authority of mrs thyssen. at this stage, the working document on the table to start this discussion, which mr draghi, as president of the central bank, and one of the four presidents, also signed, is an analytical note which leads to a totally rigid system of rules, which does not take into account at all the lessons we must learn from the crisis and the need for convergence between the economies of the area. i hope that in the future, in this debate, we can have positive contributions from the central bank and the other presidents.
in writing. following the ecb's 2013 annual report, it is sad to see the commission's determination to save the euro even as economic and financial forecasts are in the red and day by day show the inefficiency of this single currency, which is unsuitable for the economies of countries with too different contexts. the report itself makes the grim assessment of the euro area: high unemployment, economic inactivity, possible risks of deflation or a decline in credit to the private sector (while the eu had bailed out the banks during the crisis). the report recommends, however, that this forward flight be continued even further. the aim of supporting investment and smes by pursuing austerity policy is heresy. the eu must now understand that to face the dangers of globalisation, rather than advocating a crazy ultra-liberalism, it would be better to leave the member states their fiscal and monetary sovereignty and re-establish intelligent protectionism at the borders as practiced by almost all the states of the world. as long as the europe of banks and finance continues, the peoples will not be able to be free for good and growth will not be restored.
in writing. the annual report presented to us today would have called into question the european central bank's activity, in particular by explaining the delay in its reaction to the deflationary risk that had been evident since 2014 and the lack of structural and regulatory reforms in the banking and financial sector in the euro area. however, it must be said that certain elements have been rightly noted and i would ask the governor of the central bank and the commission to emphasize these. the reform of the banking system has not been carried out and we are still in a serious situation where smes are having real difficulties in accessing bank credit, but the banks, having taken unconsidered risks and encouraged their indebtedness, are not able to finance the long-term investments we need. finally, i would draw your attention to a particular point, which is the role and action of the ecb: frankfurt must be cautious in its optimistic forecasts for two or three years and in the low interest rates it chooses. the ecb should not claim to be europe's economic oracle.
mr president, antonio ledezma, the mayor of caracas, has been in prison since 19 february. he is accused by president nicolas maduro of fomenting a coup d'état. that justification is not credible. in reality, president maduro is in a bind. heir to the authoritarian socialist model forged by hugo chavez, he plunged his country into a major economic crisis, which he is unable to solve. he is now getting rid of a political opponent who might propose a democratic alternative. a disturbing detail: he has just issued a decree authorizing the police to use firearms against any protesters. if there is a coup in venezuela, then it is the work of president maduro. the european union would be well advised to condemn it. regardless of antonio ledezma's controversial political past, what is at stake today is more than his person: it is the fate of democracy in venezuela.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current situation in venezuela once again proves that ideology and dogmatism are not enough when it comes to developing a country in the interests of its people. venezuela is still struggling between refusing to submit to the united states and an equally dangerous submission to socialist ideology. as a patriot, i can only applaud the efforts made over the last ten years by a country which has defended its sovereignty to the hilt, particularly by fighting the monroe doctrine which led to a veritable vassalisation of south american countries to the interests of the united states. however, the rejection of ultra-liberal ideology must not lead to the embrace of socialist ideology which, as we see with the current situation, condemns the peoples to distress: economic distress which pushes millions of venezuelans to resort to rationing; but also political distress with a police state, sclerosized by corruption and drug trafficking and where the opposition is gagged as we saw with the totally illegal imprisonment of ledezma. like many of my colleagues, president maduro continues to brandish the red cloth of a so-called "fascist" threat to avoid lifting the veil on the dangerous effects of his illusions.
madam president, yesterday, 8 march, we were celebrating international women's day. today we are debating the european parliament's annual report on progress on gender equality in the european union in 2013. the fact is that much remains to be done, because we are still far, far too far from the full and complete emancipation of women in all areas of our societies. this emancipation must be achieved through education, training, access to employment and the implementation of voluntary policies in this field. reducing the wage gap and the pay gap at all stages of life, eliminating gender stereotypes and discrimination, strengthening our fight against violence - all violence - against women, breaking the glass ceilings - these must be our priorities. women expect a strong commitment from us as meps, and indeed, for example, declaring 2016 the european year for the elimination of all forms of violence against women would be a very significant sign in this respect. i thank mr tarabella for his report and for the spirit in which he conducted his work. the report by the committee on women's rights, which i am very pleased to see, is a very good report, and i hope that it will be adopted by the house. last year, for example, i was unable, like a majority of members of this house, to vote in favour of the report presented by mrs zuber. i think that the tarabella report avoids many of the pitfalls into which the previous report fell and i welcome the work of this report. i also welcome the work of our fictitious rapporteur for the epp group, mrs gabriel, who has defended our positions in the epp group with strength and discernment and who has made a decisive contribution to this work. as coordinator of the epp group in the committee on women's rights, i shall vote in favour of the tarabella report. i would urge all my colleagues to do the same. i think that the members of the french delegation to the epp group will also be keen to show that they are in favour of equality between men and women. once again, this will be the position of the epp group, which is resolutely in favour of this equality, but in compliance with the prerogatives and competences of the member states, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity... (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i am not sure i heard a question, perhaps it was more of an interrogation than a real question. i would simply like to remind you that, both personally and as coordinator of the epp group in the committee on women's rights, i am of course in favour of ratifying the istanbul convention. but i do not want this debate to be used as an instrument or to become the site of stigmatisation, practices which, in my view, too often undermine the need to unite and come together to send a strong, unifying and unifying message and thus make a strong contribution from our chamber to the cause of equality between men and women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr tarabella is a compilation of proposals which are totally off-topic. it was all based on a common sense principle of western philosophy and our christian roots, namely, the equality of men and women. i have long worked for equal treatment and justice, and i will continue to fight for it. however, ladies and gentlemen, you are on the wrong side of the fence. you've mixed gender theory with a whole host of intellectual aberrations: paternity leave, abortion, tax reform. you're presenting a grossly false view of the family, proving that you've chosen to fight to destroy it. and it is women and children who will suffer most from the attacks on the basic unit of european society, the family, which some here see as backward or oppressive for women, even though it is their best protection. but not a word, not a single word, about the structural changes under way which threaten equality between women and men in europe today, starting with cultural practices alien to our civilization and nurtured by communitarianism and multiculturalism. you want to take stock of the progress made in terms of equality and dignity for women. defend these women who are forced to marry men so that they can have papers! protect these women held captive in their burqas, a veritable mobile prison! rescue the girls who are prostituted and used as objects by pimps and mafia networks who basically take advantage of the lack of borders and the laxity of the judiciary that the parties of the system have promoted. it is clear that you are more concerned with an ideology than with the treatment of women in europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". actually, what i would like is for women to have more freedom, that's true, but good freedom. in other words, the freedoms of being a parent, a family, not what you are seeking at the moment, namely the explosion of society, as you propose, and which does not correspond to our christian values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again, hell is paved with good intentions. the original aim of protecting women's rights is diverted here for ideological and economic purposes. ideological, because mr tarabella forgets what is specific about men and women and what makes them complementary. economic, because the goal is to have more and more people in a forced labour market with falling wages. the reality is that the first form of violence against women is the denial of their otherness. it is to want to create, for example, non-transferable paternity leave, paternity leave which will de facto take away time from maternity leave, because it is obvious that in the long run both leave will have to be of the same duration - a matter of equality, of course. violence is forgetting that a baby needs its mother first. violence is taking it away from them and sending them to work, often for less than they deserve. the commission, for its part, is directly contributing to the deterioration of the situation of women with its policy of 'violence without frontiers'. the mass influx of people, who have no common values or customs, contributes greatly to the plight of women. i want to take as an example my last speech here on the subject of excision now being practised in europe. what has happened since then to expel those responsible for such barbarity? of course not! on the other hand, creating a genuine parental income to allow women to really choose how to balance motherhood and career would have been an interesting lead. not a word about this. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women, and it is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. your goal is to create generic beings alienated from an increasingly deregulated labor market. so, turning a woman into a man like everyone else is not my ideal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the tarabella report is just another expression of the materialism, utilitarianism and egalitarianism that prevail here. the report encourages women who have chosen to work part-time to do so full-time. the women who have chosen to focus on the future of their children are clearly not in line with mr tarabella's definition of female dignity. the report is a tribute to the culture of death by its explicit support for abortion, a weapon of mass destruction against the european population. her vision of women is a far cry from what the european woman has been throughout history: a strong woman who is one of the keys to the rapid progress of our civilization. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis, but that it is not disrupted by the economic crisis. mr tarabella, european women did not wait for your quotas to weigh in on the great political choices of our history, to show courage, to fight against totalitarianism as much as men. women don't need you to secure their future, because they carry it in their bellies. and finally, mr tarabella, since you are french like me, if you want to fight against stigma and stereotypes, start educating mr valls who carries the culture of hatred and stigma against his political opponents. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam, that is a clear compliment... just read the report. as for abortion, it is simply article 45 that praises it. the report, which is of course well-intentioned in relation to equality between men and women, quickly veers into praising abortion, in defiance of the sovereignty of the member states in this area.
mr. president, my name is pauline, i just graduated. it's my first job. on business dates, i'm easily groped and kissed, while my male colleagues are wished and shook hands. but i'm lucky because a lot of times, people don't look me in the eye. somehow i know i have to do more than them to be taken seriously. do i have to masculinize myself too?" "my name is marion. i'm a young mother. after returning from maternity leave, i was fortunate to have a place in the nursery for my son. at work, i applied for a promotion because i have the required experience and skills that everyone recognizes. unfortunately, it was my male colleague who was chosen because he will be "more available" than me. i will go to court but without the obligation to inform my employer, i know it will be difficult to prove discrimination". my name is chantal. i'm retired now. strangely, my pension is less than that of my former factory colleagues for the same number of years of contributions. wage inequalities are felt even beyond working life. " so, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, do we think we have achieved equality between men and women in europe? (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we judge a policy by its results, the least we can say is that european competition policy has failed. firstly, because certain monopolies have been abolished in order to sell public services to private interests. collectivization of costs, privatization of profits - that is what is likely to happen again with the juncker plan, combined with your new guidelines, particularly in the fields of energy and transport. the european banking sector which has benefited from almost €2 trillion in five years continues to fail to finance the real economy. in the field of new technologies, european justice is bogged down without any effective sanctions being taken, as is the case with google. smes are still the big forgotten ones, denied access to the most important public contracts and put under pressure by the large groups as in the retail sector. finally, and most importantly, because of the commission's control over public aid, it is not possible for a sovereign state to pursue a policy of economic patriotism by supporting its strategic industries. i will simply cite the example of sncm in france, which was ordered to repay 400 million euros last year by brussels and had to file for bankruptcy. you have a dogma, that the free play of the market, free of the obstacles to competition, is the key to prosperity and efficiency. the reality is that it only results in the same accumulation of wealth by a few at the expense of the general interest of the people.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i believe we are dealing with one of the biggest health and economic scandals. i heard your proposal for evaluation, then transparency and public debate. i'll take that under advisement. i know you, commissioner. i know your drive, your integrity and your drive to succeed. at the same time, it is clear that in 2009, one of your predecessors made the same proposal for evaluation, transparency and public debate. then, finally, nothing! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. it should be remembered, as the author of the oral question, mr caputo, has said: the costs of these endocrine disruptors are over 157 billion euros, or about 1.23% of the gross domestic product of the european union, in terms of reduced male fertility, early puberty, obesity, diabetes, congenital malformations and breast cancer. not long ago, observers and scientists said that 31 pesticides should have been banned in the european union. a few days ago in france it was said that the intensive cultivation of apples in a number of european countries would have serious health consequences, including for our children, who eat these apples in our school canteens all over europe. i therefore have confidence in you, commissioner, and at the same time i can give you my support. but i say that we must do so to restore confidence.
mr president, it is not for the commission to answer a scientific question which has already been settled as to what an endocrine disruptor is. several hundred scientific publications already do this. only the chemical lobbyists pretend to have a definition to avoid any expense and preserve their dividends. yet the dangers of endocrine disruptors are well known and the subject of many studies. the most recent, published on 5 march, shows the annual consequences of these chemical molecules on the territory of the union: 25 000 deaths, 96 new cases of obesity, 618 000 cases of assisted reproduction. obesity, diabetes, autism, cancer - lives are at stake. the commission is deaf to public health issues, but perhaps the economic argument will be heard. the same study estimates the cost of endocrine disruptors at up to eur 269 billion per year. and again, this study admits that it did not take into account all products or all their effects. if the commission is unable to protect our health and our economies, it must leave the member states free to decide their own policy. so with my colleagues from the national front on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have asked for a public hearing from efsa to explain its delusional conclusions about bisphenol a. the fact that the american chemical industry unions are celebrating these findings is more than alarming. it is no longer time for impact studies or bureaucratic definitions, but for urgent action. it's about everyone's health.
mr president, commissioner, i am speaking to you because you have a heavy responsibility. we trust you because you're a doctor and you've always said that you put health before economics. but this is an emergency. firstly, you have seen that the barroso commission has not followed its programme. it was to provide its scientifically based horizontal criteria by december 2013. what did she do? this was said by our colleagues, she has made a study of the economic impact on industrialists. but between us, it is not the industrialists who will set the criteria! we want to know what the economic impact is on the chemical industry. so i ask you, how are you going to do it? if you say to us: 'we must wait for the consultation, the 27 000 replies', that will not correspond to what we expect from the commission, namely that it should define scientific criteria. so we really ask you now to tell the environment dg, which has worked on this issue and has the criteria, to give priority to health over the economy. that is what we expect from you, commissioner!
in writing. this is an essential issue as it directly affects public health. it is therefore surprising to say the least that the commission seems to be questioning the proven correlation between the use of certain chemicals and endocrine disruption. indeed, for years now, a great many scientists have been sounding the alarm about this problem. today the chemical lobby still pretends to need hard evidence, obviously for the sake of their own profits. yet the latest study gives a stark picture of the use of these chemicals in the european union: 25 000 deaths, 618 000 assisted reproduction, not to mention 96 000 new cases of obesity. the fact is, chemicals can cause serious and deadly diseases - cancer, obesity, diabetes, and so on. if the public health argument is not one for some, perhaps they will be more sensitive to the economic argument. because it is 269 billion euros a year that are spent on treating and caring for patients who are victims of chemical substances. so it is no longer time for studies, for analysis, but for action. but is the union also capable of protecting?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not surprised by the question put by mr cramer. the russian embargo on european food products was introduced on 6 august 2014, while the first economic sanctions by the european union against russia were imposed on 17 march 2014. the commission has also received comments from interested parties. the national front opposed these sanctions in march, calling them inappropriate, ineffective and dangerous for the economies of the eu member states. this question shows that the national front was right to oppose it, since the russian embargo is only a direct and legitimate response to the sanctions imposed by the european union. the road haulage industry in the european union is therefore the first victim of the absurd sanctions imposed by brussels. rather than complaining about the consequences, as mr cramer does, i would rather ask the commission to lift these sanctions. and i'll bet the russian embargo will be lifted as well. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr cramer, i understood your position, but you will note that i know the history and that most of the time the european union's interference is never for the right reasons. yes, i know the history and i think that when we allow ourselves to interfere in the sovereignty of other european countries, there is inevitably a boomerang effect, and this is the case with russia.
mr president, despite the criticisms of the european peoples on the enlargement of the european union, you expect that other countries will still be able to join it, thus benefiting from the financial manna promised to them, while other peoples suffer from your 'euro-austerity'. the preaccession assistance instrument, with a budget of over eur 11 billion, is the means by which these countries are preparing for accession to the european union. we are also aware of the lack of democratic respect, for among these countries we are surprised to see turkey, whose possible accession raises many questions among our compatriots, but which has benefited from a budget of almost 5 billion euros. but i am speaking on this subject to talk about agriculture, which is one of the sectors financed by this instrument of pre-accession aid. the european union is therefore helping to develop and modernise the agriculture of these countries, preparing the introduction of their products - i am thinking of turkish fruit and vegetables for example - onto our market. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not share all the aims of this text and, in particular, with my colleagues from the national front, i am particularly sorry that the protection of companies and employees is not one of the motives. the commission is clearly not interested in their fate, and is content with a strictly ideological view that absolutizes competition. in fact, i often feel a little alone in this house with my colleagues from the national front in defending those whom you are mistreating in the name of a materialistic and liberal ideology. i also think that this text is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. whether it is the improvement of the aerodynamic performance of vehicles, their energy efficiency or the performance and safety requirements, i do not see any area in which the member states would not be able to act effectively themselves. as usual, the commission is trampling on the principle of subsidiarity in the name of reducing co2 emissions, which are clearly a good thing. finally, under the pretext of combating global warming, the commission is allowing itself to intervene in all areas, in defiance of the treaties. as in the first reading, therefore, the national front members will vote against this text, which we consider to be too technocratic. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam, yes, i said that we did not share all the objectives of this text. we believe in particular that the principle of subsidiarity must be respected, and in particular the protection of workers in each of the countries of the european union, because, you see, we sit in this house, as you do, but we never forget that we are french members of the european parliament. we are therefore trying to defend the rights of french workers as a matter of priority. i think each of us should be a little more concerned about the sovereignty of our country.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for this really lovely debate. it clearly shows that the proposal is important and that the compromise text strikes a good balance. this is why i would encourage you to adopt the report today. citizens, road hauliers and european truck manufacturers are all waiting for it. let me also briefly refer to the longer trucks, or modular concepts as they are referred to in the directive. the commission is particularly satisfied that a compromise could be found on this political point. we all recognise that a particular type of service needs to be adjusted based on the available infrastructure and local characteristics. the compromise maintains the status quo of the current directive, meaning that its member states have competence to decide either to introduce longer trucks on a trial basis or not to do so. member states can also decide which roads longer trucks are allowed to drive on, in order to minimise safety risks and impact on infrastructure. these are concrete examples of implementation of the subsidiarity principle. so member states already allowing longer trucks can continue to use them and those member states which do not wish to have longer trucks can decide against them. let me be very clear on the clarification issue. at the request of the legislators, the commission clarified during the interinstitutional negotiations its interpretation of this existing text through a statement. the statement says that longer vehicles may cross only one border between two countries, both of which allow longer trucks. i am looking forward to your support and a positive outcome of the vote.
in writing. the revision of the 1996 heavy goods vehicle 'weight and dimensions' directive was more than necessary. although this new text does not put an end to mega-trucks, these giga-liners which pose risks to road safety, road maintenance and the environment, it is necessary to support this revision which brings several major positives such as the reaffirmation of the ban on trucks over 40 tonnes crossing from one country to another, as well as the generalization of the control box system allowing better monitoring of heavy goods vehicles. another key point of the revision is the enhancement of the safety and well-being of road workers through a change in the design of the cabs. finally, improving the aerodynamics of trucks and developing low-carbon engines are equally crucial issues in the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. but the battle must go on and this review must be only one step towards the end of the mega-trucks on our european roads.
in writing. i wish to give my full support to this text, which was the subject of difficult negotiations during the last mandate and which leads to a balanced agreement. the aim of this text is to encourage investment in safer, less co2-intensive heavy goods vehicles. i can only support these arrangements. it also aims to ensure better control of the weight of these vehicles; we know that there are many frauds in the maximum volume that a heavy goods vehicle can carry on our roads, and it is imperative that european rules are respected. i am particularly pleased that there is no longer any question of opening up the european roads to the free movement of 'mega-trucks', those giant heavy goods vehicles which are currently only used locally in some countries of the union and which, in my view, have no place in a europe geared towards a sustainable economy, and logically therefore towards modal shift. the original proposals of the european commission on this subject have been withdrawn, so i shall vote in favour of this text.
the rapporteur. mr president, the creation of the european long-term investment funds (eltif) is the first concrete step in the reorientation of financial resources towards the real economy and, in particular, towards long-term investment. in the last few weeks we have seen all the engines of growth return to europe. we have benefited from the collapse in the price of the barrel, from a significant fall in the euro, from the particularly accommodating policy recently launched by the european central bank and, finally, from the launch of the juncker plan. we must consolidate these fundamental elements of growth, first by retaining the global liquidity that is now spontaneously returning to europe. of course, by strengthening financial stability across all dimensions of the banking union and by removing remaining barriers to investment between member states, with our partners. this is the whole point of the banking union and the capital markets union. eltifs are a highly anticipated first investment for this purpose. we started with a worrying observation with the commission. there are huge masses of money available in the world, but very little of it is directed towards long-term financing and very little of it is directed towards europe for that financing. governments themselves are held back by high debt and the need for fiscal reforms. large companies adopt conservative investment strategies or invest outside europe and banks weakened are still too often dependent on state aid. in addition, insurance companies and pension funds wishing to invest in long-term assets do not always have the resources to mobilise sufficient funds on their own, and there is no european pooling mechanism, such as investment funds, to facilitate this type of action. so there was a market need to be met. the creation of the new investment vehicle is intended to encourage them to invest in assets such as unlisted companies seeking long-term capital, certain listed smes, as well as the european venture capital funds and the european social entrepreneurship funds we created some time ago. these types of funds require investors to agree to lock their investments for a period of time in exchange for a premium, unlike other funds that allow investors to recover their investment at any time but for a lower return. to qualify as an eltif, funds will have to invest at least 70% of their capital in certain types of assets, be marketed only by managers the alternative investment fund managers directive sets strict rules and stringent requirements for fund managers and finally, be managed for a specified period during which investors are not entitled to recoup their investment, except in certain circumstances to be clearly specified from the outset. we have tried to create a statute as flexible as possible to appeal to sovereign wealth funds, hedge funds, pension funds, but also to wealthy individuals. eltifs target mainly professional investors such as local or corporate pension funds, municipalities, insurance companies. they will also be available to certain retail investors. that, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is how we propose to consolidate the investment toolbox in europe. its entry into force will coincide with the effective start of the juncker plan and will have the same objective: to boost growth and competitiveness throughout the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european longterm investment funds have a priori provisions which are common sense. they are intended to support small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in projects that are of structural importance for our territories. however, the relevance of the european level for the implementation of these funds is not demonstrated. the commission will be able to take account of the need to ensure that the banking union is fully integrated and that the common rules on regulation are brought closer together. the additional report states that 'eltifs are a first step towards the creation of an integrated internal market for raising capital that can be channelled to long-term investments in the european economy'. however, on what basis will we converge at european level? as you know, our models of financial market regulation and our tax and social legislation differ greatly between the many states. finally, by placing this fund under the control of the european financial markets authority and the commission, you are making yet another affront to the sovereignty of the states, which will not have a say in the management of these funds, however strategic they may be for them.
mr president, commissioner, we are dealing here with a report which should have been published much earlier, when the crisis broke out on a european scale in 2007 and everyone was aware that it was a crisis of speculation and a diversion of long-term financing from the real economy. since then, we have taken a long time to stabilise the financial markets and to save the banks, but basically very little is being done to ensure the essential thing, namely the long-term financing of the economy so that the european union can face its own challenges: climate change, the demographic challenge and what have you. so here is the good news and perhaps tomorrow the european longterm investment funds, the eltifs, will become that new label, much as the ucits were the demonstration that europe knew how to invent financial markets or financial products useful for financing the economy. this will be true if these funds allow investment outside speculation, outside tax havens and in particular in compliance with the oecd conventions. this will be true if it does indeed help to create jobs here in europe through these strategic investments or if it also allows individuals to contribute to these funds. we must also learn from the lessons: the trilogue on this issue was concluded on the day of the launch of the juncker plan. there's a signal. we need to encourage these long-term investments again and again, and i would like to see this as a guiding principle when we look at commissioner hill's proposal for a european capital market, which should not simply be a return to securitisation but a financing of the real economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2008 capital market crash was the cause of the crisis which is now weighing heavily on our economies, even if mr kyrtsos of the epp thinks that everything is going very well. since then, the private banking system, which is too fragile, has almost ceased to finance the traditional economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. after toxic products, it is therefore necessary to converge financial savings towards this traditional economy with a stable investment horizon and disconnected from speculation on world markets. the creation of these eltifs to channel long-term savings to smes should therefore be welcomed. nevertheless, the investment rules for these products would have benefited from stricter and more controlled rules. for example, the 70% share of investment in longterm projects seems to us to be very inadequate. where will the remaining 30% of these funds, which are supposed to finance the economy, go? the other handicap is the contractual possibility of exiting the fund before the end of the economic projects, which can distort these long-term investment funds. but most importantly, there are no rules against the rampant takeovers of rapacious investors. eltifs will allow an investor to enter the capital of an sme, even if it is listed, without going through the threshold declarations. we will therefore be very attentive to the details of the second stage and will refrain from doing so in the meantime.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to endorse the excellent conclusions of the commissioner and thank all the colleagues who have supported us, in particular the fictitious rapporteurs, the european commission and the italian presidency, which has been very effective in concluding the dialogues. if mr lamberts were still present, i would have reassured him that the solution of a 60% quota of compulsory investments in europe was not adopted. but it is all the better because we now have a drafting system in which not 60%, but 100% of the investments will be devoted to european projects. if our colleague, mrs matias, were still here, i would have reassured her by saying that with these long-term investment funds we are going to encourage the opposite of the casino economy, because she was afraid of the casino economy. the idea is to take the money where it is and to invest it in jobs and competitiveness through longterm investment. if mr monot were still here, i would also reassure him that, contrary to what he has said and what he fears, the banks have continued, particularly in our country, france, to finance small and mediumsized enterprises at the rate of previous years, but this is not enough to revive investment throughout the union. finally, i would like to end with a recommendation to the member states. of course, these funds will only be attractive if we make them a little bit more attractive - if i may say so - by making them benefit from the most tax-friendly savings clause in each of our countries. we need these kinds of incentives to make these funds successful, and today's discussion has amply demonstrated how much we need them.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
this closes the voting. the explanations of vote will take place after the formal sitting.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ poland has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 615 employees at zaklady chemiczne zachem between 31 march and 31 july 2013. the redundancies were the result of the cessation of activities and the restructuring of the zachem company, located in the cuyávia-pomeranian voivodeship. they are concerned with the decline in the european union's market shares in the chemical industry. from 1992 to 2012, the union's share of the global chemicals market increased from 35,2% to 17,8% in 2012. during the same period, china's share of the chemicals market increased from 8.7% to 30.5%. the collapse of the european chemical industry is therefore due to the ill-considered liberalisation of trade which has allowed asian competitors to oust europeans from the chemical industry. i voted in favour of this eur 115 205 aid to poland because it will help victims of the globalist and ultra-liberal policies of the european union by supporting the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, although i have some reservations about the timing of the introduction of this tool, i support its primary purpose. i believe that the adjustment to globalisation should be made upstream or at the beginning of the company's financial problems rather than at the time of the number of redundancies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, knowing full well that this 'adjustment fund' is only a setback: if the european union really wants to combat the harmful effects of globalisation, it must renounce the dogma of the free movement of goods and people and no longer stand in the way of the introduction of protectionist measures.
in writing. poland submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf following 615 redundancies at zaklady chemiczne zachem and two of its suppliers due to the cessation of production and restructuring of zachem, a chemical industry company located in the cuyávia-pomeranian voivodeship. the requested aid is eur 115 205 and i therefore voted in favour of this mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ poland submitted application egf/2013/009 to obtain a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following 615 redundancies at zaklady chemiczne zachem. the european parliament acknowledges that redundancies are directly linked to a decline in the eu market share in the chemical industry from 35.2% in 1992 to 17.8% in 2012. at the same time, asia and particularly china are experiencing a considerable increase in their production due largely to their wage costs, much more flexible regulations, and subsidies from public administrations to support the sector. these redundancies are therefore the result of a free trade policy open to all the winds of unbridled globalisation which are now affecting the eastern member states of the union, which are supposed to be better able to withstand international competition. rather than releasing funds to put out the social fire, we should implement an economic policy which protects our industries from unfair competition upstream. i have voted for the granting of this fund to help those workers who are victims of the excesses of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the dismissed employees of zachem in poland. the amount of the aid shall be eur 115 205. the dismissed workers will receive training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. the request from poland justifies intervention by the european globalisation adjustment fund in view of the decline of the european chemical industry in the face of asian and in particular chinese competition. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is right that workers in the member states of the european union who are suffering the most from the crisis and the austerity policy imposed by the european union should receive compensation. in the present case, the 615 redundancies at zachem and two of its suppliers have seriously affected polish workers. the commission also found that the polish request was justified in that companies in the european union have suffered particularly in recent years from chinese competition, in particular in the chemical industry: from 1992 to 2012, the union's share of the global chemicals market fell sharply, from 35,2% in 1992 to 30,5% in 2002 and 17,8% in 2012. 2012.in view of these facts, it seemed important to me that zachem's employees receive compensation, as light as it was, for their work. he did.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 615 employees of zaklady chemiczne zachem and two of its chemical suppliers, poland has asked the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support those who have lost their jobs and to help them find work or set up their own business. the grant is eur 115 205 and covers 50% of the cost of the projects to be proposed to these employees. since the request of the republic of poland meets the criteria for mobilising the egf, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. to support workers suffering from the consequences of globalisation, poland requested the activation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the redundancies of 615 employees of the company 'zachem' and its two suppliers active in the chemical industry. as a major employer in a region, these job losses caused by the migration of the chemical industry to asia have contributed to the worsening of the economic and social situation of a region already marked by the highest unemployment rate in the country. the egf will provide financing for a package of personalised services to help workers reintegrate into the labour market. in this respect, it is to be welcomed that, according to provisional data, 36 people have so far been re-employed through their participation in the services offered.
in writing. ‒ poland has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 615 employees at zaklady chemiczne zachem between 31 march 2013 and 31 july 2013. the company had ceased its activities and then started restructuring due to the decline in the european union's market shares in the chemical industry. between 1992 and 2012, the union's share of the global chemicals market increased from 35,2% to 17,8%. china's share went from 8.7% to 30.5%. trade liberalization, the absence of protectionism, has led to the downfall of our chemical industry. i voted in favour of this eur 115 205 aid to poland to help, for example by facilitating the reclassification of these polish employees, victims of the ultra-liberal policy of the european union.
in writing. ‒ poland has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 615 employees at zaklady chemiczne zachem in 2013. the redundancies were the result of the restructuring of the zachem company in the kuyavian-pomeranian voivodeship. they are concerned with the decline in the european union's market shares in the chemical industry, to the benefit of our asian competitors. from 1992 to 2012, the union's share of the global chemicals market increased from 35,2% to 17,8% in 2012. during the same period, china's share of the chemicals market increased from 8.7% to 30.5%. i voted in favour of this eur 115 205 aid to poland because it is intended to help victims of the european union's globalist and ultra-liberal policies by supporting the reintegration of dismissed workers into their labour market. i have, however, doubts about the actual application of the reach directive on the risk assessment of chemicals, which is in principle applied to imports: can the european chemicals agency and the customs authorities of the member states really control the exponential flow of goods from asia?
in writing. ‒ poland has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 615 employees at zaklady chemiczne zachem between 31 march 2013 and 31 july 2013. the company had ceased its activities and then started restructuring due to the decline in the european union market shares in the chemical industry. between 1992 and 2012, the union's share of the global chemicals market increased from 35,2% to 17,8%. china's share went from 8.7% to 30.5%. trade liberalization, the absence of protectionism, has led to the downfall of our chemical industry. i voted in favour of this eur 115 205 aid to poland to help, for example by facilitating the reclassification of these polish employees, victims of the ultra-liberal policy of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jan olbrycht on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of the company zachem in poland. the fund will provide eur 115 205 to 615 redundant employees of zachem to finance training, advisory services or start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request by poland for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in connection with redundancies at zachem and at two suppliers and producers. the fund was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in international trade resulting from globalisation and to help them re-enter the labour market. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 115 205.
in writing. ‒ as i had already done in the committee on employment and social affairs, i renewed my vote in favour of the olbrycht report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 615 redundant employees of the polish company zaklady chemizne zachem. the egf will finance eur 115 205 of aid consisting mainly of counselling, guidance and training measures under the national project 'back to the labour market iii - a new career'. in the face of mass unemployment, the egf is once again proving to be an effective tool for providing concrete and lasting support to the victims of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the european union, through its active participation in the process of globalisation and its passive trade policies, is largely responsible for the economic weakening of nations and the decommissioning of our productive apparatus. i believe that the allocation of these funds is a fair, albeit modest, compensation for the damage suffered by the peoples of the world as a result of its actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the fund, as i did in the empl committee, because this fund supports workers made redundant by their companies as a result of the economic crisis in europe. here the fund will support 615 graduates in the chemical manufacturing sector in poland.
in writing. ‒ this case of the globalisation fund proposes to help some 600 redundant workers in a polish company specialising in the chemical industry. it should be noted that the share of chemical manufacturing in china increased from 8,7% in 2002 to 30,5% in 2012. european producers suffer from this dumping, made possible by the european policy of free competition. this aid is just a bandage on a failed policy. i am more than ever in favour of social and ecological protectionism, the only remedy and control to ensure public health and the development of a european high-technology sector. i shall abstain, however, in order not to oppose the financial support that these workers will receive.
in writing. once again, the european union is playing the pyromaniac fireman, trying to put out the fire it has started. it will thus partially compensate for the damage caused by its ultra-liberal ideology. the inconsistency of such a policy does not seem to shock anyone. i am voting for this aid to employees so as not to penalize the victims of european ultra-liberalism any further.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim is to mobilise the fund to the tune of eur 115 000 to support the redeployment of 615 employees made redundant by the polish chemical manufacturer zaklady chemiczne zachem.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted five reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of all five of its reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 115 000 from this fund to 50 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of the zaklady chemiczne zachem company in poland. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to compensate, through the european globalisation adjustment fund, all the collateral victims of certain economic operations generated on a global scale. as such, i fully support all actions aimed at strengthening cohesion within our continent by protecting its workers and which strengthen the social dimension of the european project.
in writing. ‒ globalisation, by opening up european markets to international competition, has had a direct impact on our businesses at economic and structural level. the union has therefore set up a european globalisation adjustment fund to limit the effects of globalisation on european economies, our businesses and our workers. the fund was requested by poland in 2015 to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the chemical sector. i considered that this request was in accordance with the fund's rules and i voted in favour of this call. it is important to encourage the retraining and training of workers and this fund makes it possible to do so.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which aims to unlock financial and professional support for the 615 employees of zaklady chemiczne zachem in poland. these were abruptly dismissed following the sudden increase in the supply of tdi to the market and the fall in the cost of production in third countries following structural changes in the market; these two factors have caused a competitive deficit for zachem which has resulted in a large-scale social plan. the european globalisation adjustment fund will provide financial assistance of up to 50%, which will cover in particular the establishment of support for the adaptation and modernisation processes in the region as well as training provided. once again, the european globalisation adjustment fund is proving its worth, and i have therefore supported this report in order to continue our commitments to a fairer europe closer to the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the amount of eur 115 205 to help reintegrate 615 polish workers made redundant because of the economic difficulties of their employer, the chemical company zachem. between 1992 and 2012, the eu's share of the global chemicals market collapsed from 35.2% in 1992 to 17.8% in 2012. european companies are being hit hard by the rise of chinese producers, who benefit from large subsidies, lax legislation and cheap labour. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up on the initiative of france to help workers who lose their jobs as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ we support this request for the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as in this case we need to safeguard employment. however, we note that the union's recommendations do not go in the direction of fair globalisation, which would allow states to protect their businesses and jobs in the same way as other major powers do.
in writing. ‒ the delegation systematically votes for the 'european globalisation adjustment funds' because they are programmes to support employees of companies sometimes forced to lay off under the pressure of market deregulation, a consequence of the disastrous ultra-liberal policies applied within this european union incapable of defending neither the people who make it up nor the companies that make it live.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ germany has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 657 employees at aleo solar. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market. the decrease is largely due to unfair competition from china in the solar module sector. between 2005 and 2011, china's share of the revenue increased from 11% to 45%, while germany's share fell from 64% to 21%. germany itself has refused to allow brussels to impose sanctions on photovoltaic, betting that unfair chinese competition would weaken its other european competitors. the germans lost that bet because the chinese industrialists ended up ruining the entire european solar sector, including the german solar sector. i therefore abstained on this report because i cannot support the german authorities' attitude on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, although i have some reservations about the timing of the introduction of this tool, i support its primary purpose. i believe that the adjustment to globalisation should be made upstream or at the beginning of the company's financial problems rather than at the time of the number of redundancies.
in writing. ‒ i generally vote in favour of mobilising this fund, although i condemn its perverse logic of giving tranquilizers rather than treating the ill. exceptionally, i chose to abstain because germany strongly opposed the imposition of anti-dumping measures on chinese solar panels. in the country of angela merkel, the photovoltaic sector has no less than 10 000 companies, 350 of which produce solar panels. the remainder is involved in resale and installation and therefore benefits from the low chinese costs. germany has clearly chosen "services" over industrial production... but now proposes to the european union to pay the price of this policy. it is therefore up to germany to bear the consequences of its irresponsible policy which is harming european producers.
in writing. germany has applied for a financial contribution from the egf following 657 redundancies, 390 of which occurred at aleo solar ag, a company in the computer, electronic and optical products manufacturing sector, and 267 in two of its subsidiaries, of which 476 are expected to participate in the measures. we are being asked for eur 1 094 760 in aid from the egf. i abstained on this report because i felt that the measures taken were insufficient and that the european union had not taken effective action against the unfair international competition which we denounce in this sector.
in writing. ‒ germany submitted the application egf/2014/014de/aleo solar for a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund due to 657 redundancies, 390 of which occurred at aleo solar, a company specialising in the manufacture of photovoltaic panels. the european parliament considers that these redundancies are directly linked 'to changes in the structure of world trade', i.e. to the sharp decline in the share of revenues of german companies in the sector, from 64% to 21% between 2005 and 2011. despite multiple attempts at restructuring, aleo solar has never managed to regain competitiveness against the chinese. these redundancies demonstrate first that the crisis affects all the member states of the union, including those considered to be unaffected by chinese competition. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had not been able to demonstrate that the measures were in line with the union interest. while this is a sovereign choice, it is not up to the european taxpayers to pay the price. that is why i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ parliament decided to accept the request from germany for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the employees of aleo solar in germany who have been severely affected by the employment consequences of globalisation. the dismissed employees will receive training aimed at reintegration into the labour market and job search. the amount of the aid is eur 1 094 760. the request is justified given the very strong global competition in the solar module sector, with china being one of the main competitors. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. - i preferred to abstain on this text. i do support the 657 employees of aleo solar, who are currently in a situation of great economic distress. however, this situation could have been avoided if germany had not chosen to sell off its industry to chinese production and to the detriment of its workers. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had not been able to provide sufficient evidence to justify the imposition of the measures. of the 10 000 german companies in the sector, only 350 actually produce these panels, the rest being dedicated to the resale of chinese products. germany is now asking the other member states to make up for some of its mistake, even though it has preferred to sell off its industry, in particular because of fears of chinese sanctions on its exports. i don't consider that the employees of aleo solar should pay the bill; but in this particular case, i do not think it is up to the taxpayers of the member states, particularly the french taxpayers, to do so.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 390 employees at aleo solar ag and 267 employees at two of its subsidiaries in the solar panel sector, germany has asked the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support those who have lost their jobs and to help them find work or set up their own businesses. the aid granted amounts to eur 1 094 760 and covers 50% of the cost of the conversion projects to be offered to these employees. since the request of the federal republic of germany meets the criteria for mobilising the egf, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the solar module industry is facing serious difficulties in europe, in particular due to competition from china. the subsidy to the chinese solar module industry created significant overcapacity which led to a sharp drop in prices. today, more than 90% of chinese production is exported, 80% of which is to the european union. in this context, the german company aleo solar and two of its subsidiaries have laid off 657 employees in a region of germany with a deteriorating social climate. per capita income is well below the national average and the unemployment rate is 15.5%, one of the highest in germany. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is therefore an additional factor in supporting the actions already undertaken to help redundant workers to return to work as quickly as possible. to this end, the egf will provide eur 1 094 760, or 60% of the total cost of the proposed actions, to provide vocational training, facilitate interregional mobility and provide individual support.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted on 10 march 2015 to allocate a share of the european globalisation adjustment fund to aleo solar. despite all efforts to restructure and increase efficiency, the german company aleo solar, which specialises in photovoltaics, was unable to cope with the low production costs of chinese companies and therefore went into liquidation. the aid provided by the fund is therefore necessary to help the workers of this company to find a new job or to undergo further training. environmentalists say renewable energy must finally become a clear priority for the eu if such closures are not to happen again.
in writing. ‒ germany has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 657 employees at aleo solar. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had significantly increased their sales volumes to the union market. china's global revenue fell from 11% to 45% between 2005 and 2011, while germany's revenue fell from 64% to 21% over the same period. brussels has not taken the necessary measures to protect the union's industries in time and has allowed them to be ruined for the benefit of our asian competitors. nevertheless, the german authorities and industrialists bear responsibility, since they refused to allow the european union to take such measures, believing that they could use chinese dumping to get rid of their competitors. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ germany has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 657 employees at aleo solar. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. the commission established the profitability of the union industry by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. between 2005 and 2011, the market shares of chinese companies increased from 11% to 45%, while those of german companies decreased from 64% to 21%. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. the germans lost that bet, because the chinese industrialists ended up ruining the entire european solar sector, including the german solar sector. i therefore abstained on this report because i cannot support the german authorities' attitude on this matter.
in writing. ‒ germany has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 657 employees at aleo solar. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had significantly increased their sales volumes to the union market. china's global revenue fell from 11% to 45% between 2005 and 2011, while germany's revenue fell from 64% to 21% over the same period. brussels has not taken the necessary measures to protect the union's industries in time and has allowed them to be ruined for the benefit of our asian competitors. nevertheless, the german authorities and industrialists bear responsibility, since they refused to allow the european union to take such measures, believing that they could use chinese dumping to get rid of their competitors. they lost that bet and the german solar industry is just a remnant of what it was. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague iris hoffman on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of aleo solar in germany. the fund will provide eur 1 094 760 for the 657 redundant employees of aleo solar to finance training, counselling services or start-up grants to help the beneficiaries re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by germany concerning redundancies in aleo solar ag and two of its subsidiaries in germany. the fund was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in international trade resulting from globalisation or as a result of the continuing global financial and economic crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 1 094 760.
in writing. ‒ having already done so in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of the hoffmann report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 476 redundant workers at aleo solar and two of its subsidiaries (germany). the egf will finance eur 1 094 760 for vocational training activities, career guidance counselling, peer groups and workshops, supplemented by a training allowance, aid for business creation, interregional assistance and post-employment follow-up. the egf has once again proved its usefulness in supporting sectors that are facing problems due to globalisation and are the vectors of mass unemployment that are difficult to stem.
in writing. ‒ the disbursement of eu funds to the german photovoltaic equipment production sector raises questions about the relevance of germany's opposition in 2013 to the introduction of protective measures in this sector vis-à-vis china. the commission also found that the exporting producers in the prc were not able to obtain sufficient evidence to justify the imposition of the measures. i am in favour of protecting national interests, but it is not acceptable that a member state should be able to benefit from its influence through european funds in two ways. which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ germany has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 657 employees at aleo solar and its subsidiaries. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. however, the german authorities and industrialists bear responsibility for refusing to be protected when such protection was in the interests of these companies themselves. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. - i abstained on this german request concerning the solar panel industry. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were in line with the met/it guidelines. germany is now deciding to make europe, and therefore the other member states, pay for the consequences of its choice. it was therefore impossible to support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the case of this globalisation fund is exemplary. this aid is to help workers laid off by a solar panel company, victims of the hypocritical eu policy led by germany. on the one hand, free and undistorted competition and relocations are encouraged, on the other hand, a palliative is created to mitigate the 'potential negative consequences' of this policy. the factory has been bought by a chinese company, so some of the employees will be re-hired. the fund is therefore being used to finance the restructuring of the plant. i am voting against to show my disagreement with merkel's policy which is destroying jobs and destroying entire families.
in writing. in this report we are asked to cover the damage caused by the ultra-liberal policy pursued by brussels. once again, the european union is playing the part of the pyromaniac fireman in trying to put out the fire it has started. it will thus try to partially compensate for the damage it has caused by its ultra-liberal ideology. the inconsistency of such a policy does not seem to shock anyone. i abstained on this aid to employees because i felt that the measures taken were insufficient and the report was not very clear.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim is to mobilise the fund to the tune of eur 1,1 million to support the redeployment of 657 employees made redundant by aleo solar and its subsidiaries in the brandenburg and weser-ems regions. these companies are active in the manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted five reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of all five of its reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament has given its consent to the release of eur 1 million from the fund for 476 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of the aleo solar company in germany. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to compensate, through the european globalisation adjustment fund, all the collateral victims of certain economic operations generated on a global scale. as such, i fully support all actions aimed at strengthening cohesion within our continent by protecting its workers and which strengthen the social dimension of the european project.
in writing. ‒ the process of globalisation has opened up european markets to international competition, bringing economic and structural changes for our companies. the union has therefore set up a european globalisation adjustment fund to mitigate the effects of globalisation on european economies, but above all on workers. it is important to note that not all of our international trading partners apply the same competition laws, which can create distortions of competition and thus bankrupt some companies. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market. in the face of unfair chinese competition, european companies in this sector have been severely weakened and many have gone bankrupt. i support this request and stress the importance of this fund in enabling european companies in the solar energy sector to face increased international competition and to retain their employees.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report in order to unlock financial and professional support for the 657 aleo solar licensees in germany. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to compete with the union producers in the union market. the european globalisation adjustment fund will contribute 50% of the financial assistance provided through training actions. once again, the european globalisation adjustment fund is proving its full worth, and i have supported this report in order to continue our commitments to a fairer europe closer to the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for a total amount of eur 1 094 760 to help the reintegration of 476 german workers made redundant by their employer, the solar energy company aleo solar. this company did not resist the chinese dumping of solar modules and was put into liquidation. in recent years, china has flooded the global solar panel market, causing a dramatic price drop for the european industry. the financial support provided to chinese manufacturers has enabled them to sell their stocks at low prices. more than 90% of the chinese production is exported, 80% of which is to the union. the european commission has been slow to react to this unfair competition. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up on the initiative of france to help workers who lose their jobs as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ in the present case, the use of the european adjustment fund does not seem justified to us because of its too distant relation to the subject of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ the delegation has a habit of voting systematically for the 'european globalisation adjustment funds' because they are programmes to support employees of companies sometimes forced to lay off under the pressure of market deregulation, a consequence of the disastrous ultra-liberal policies applied within this european union incapable of defending neither the people who make it up nor the companies that make it live. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had not been able to demonstrate that the measures were in line with the union interest. germany had therefore clearly chosen to favour the services sector over domestic industrial production (for fear of chinese retaliation on its exports). to propose today that the union should pay the extra costs is to make a mockery of the world.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 708 employees at the steel companies duferco and nlmk, located in la louvière. duferco closed down and nmlk cut back on staff. the commission notes that the restructuring plan was submitted by the french authorities in the context of the restructuring plan. the reason for this is the decline in the market shares of european steel industries. the opening up of frontiers, particularly in the automotive sector, has weakened the european steel industry. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. during the same period, world production rose from 1 249 million tonnes to 1 548.3 million tonnes. european production therefore fell from 16.5% to 11.4% of world production. the globalisation of trade has benefited china most, with its market share in steel production rising from 33.7% to 45%. that is why i voted in favour of this aid of eur 981 956 to belgium, to enable it to help the victims of the deindustrialisation wanted by the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, although i have some reservations about the timing of the introduction of this tool, i support its primary purpose. i believe that the adjustment to globalisation should be made upstream or at the beginning of the company's financial problems rather than at the time of the number of redundancies.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the hypocritical system of the 'globalization adjustment fund', but i voted in favour of this report which proposes to release aid for belgian ex-employees of the steel companies duferco and nlmk: if this fund exists, it might as well be used to help european workers in distress. but again, instead of trying to mitigate the effects, the causes should be tackled by protecting european workers from the ravages of globalisation.
in writing. belgium has applied for a financial contribution from the egf following 708 redundancies in 2 enterprises, following the closure of the duferco enterprise and staff reductions in the nlmk enterprise, enterprises involved in the manufacture of base metals, in la louvière (belgian hainaut). i therefore voted in favour of granting the egf a grant of eur 981 956.
in writing. ‒ on 27 september 2013, belgium submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of 708 redundancies in the steel-producing companies duferco belgium sa and nlmk la louvière sa. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. however, world steel production increased from 1 249 to 1 518 million tonnes. the decline in the steel industry is due to the absence of a policy to protect and stimulate the industrial sector, of which steel is an indispensable element. the recent mittal/arcelor case shows that the eu states are at the mercy of rapacious multinationals seeking to control the world steel market by limiting production. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the steel industry is one of them. i voted for the granting of the gef to belgium.
in writing. ‒ meps voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant by duferco-nlm in hainaut, belgium. the aid amount is eur 981 956. more than 700 redundant employees will benefit from training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. the demand is justified and necessary given the decline in productivity of the steel sector compared to the global trend. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ 708 people were made redundant following the closure of duferco belgium sa and the reduction of staff at nlmk la louvière sa the number of belgian workers who, like other employees in europe, are suffering the ravages of globalisation is growing rapidly. according to the belgian government, between 2006 and 2011, crude steel production in the eu-27 decreased from 206.9 million tonnes to 177.7 million tonnes (i.e. - 14.1%; - 3.0% annual growth rate). the community's total production increased by 1.4% in the first quarter of this year, compared with a decrease of 1.4% in the first quarter of the year. there is no decline in demand for steel, but the european union has lost 29.4% of its market share, while china has lost 45% of its market share. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to provide for the necessary improvements in the quality of life and health of the people. i'm sure of it.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 708 steel workers, including 381 at duferco and 327 at nlmk, belgium has asked the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support those who have lost their jobs and help them to find a job or set up their own business. the aid granted amounts to eur 981 956 and covers 50% of the cost of the conversion projects to be offered to these employees. since the request of the kingdom of belgium meets the criteria for mobilising the egf, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. belgium faced a wave of redundancies in the steel industry in 2013, in particular due to a sharp decline in the european union market share in steel production. this sector is particularly sensitive to the global crisis which we have been experiencing for several years now. the european globalisation adjustment fund, which we voted for, will give displaced belgian workers access to a financial contribution and a coordinated package of personalised services to deal with this situation.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 708 employees at the steel companies duferco and nlmk, located in la louvière. the company was forced to lay off workers in 2013 due to the decline in steel production in the european union, due to the opening of borders, especially in the automotive sector. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. that is why i voted in favour of this aid of eur 981 956 to belgium, to enable it to help the victims of the deindustrialisation caused by the economic policies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 708 employees at the steel companies duferco and nlmk, located in la louvière. duferco closed down and nmlk cut back on staff. the commission notes that the restructuring plan was submitted by the french authorities in the context of the restructuring plan. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the opening up of frontiers, particularly in the automotive sector, has weakened the european steel industry. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. during the same period, world production rose from 1 249 million tonnes to 1 548.3 million tonnes. european production therefore fell from 16.5% to 11.4% of world production. the globalisation of trade has benefited china most, with its market share in steel production rising from 33.7% to 45%. that is why i voted in favour of this aid of eur 981 956 to belgium, to enable it to help the workers who are victims of the deindustrialization wanted by the european union.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 708 employees at the steel companies duferco and nlmk, located in la louvière. the company was forced to lay off workers in 2013 due to the decline in steel production in the european union, due to the opening of borders, especially in the automotive sector. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. that is why i voted in favour of this aid of eur 981 956 to belgium, to enable it to help the victims of the deindustrialisation caused by the economic policies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague andrej plenković on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of hainaut steel in belgium. the fund will provide eur 981 956 for 708 redundant employees of hainaut steel to finance training, consultancy services or start-up bonuses to help the beneficiaries re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by belgium concerning redundancies in duferco belgium sa and nlmk la louvière sa. the fund was set up to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in international trade resulting from globalisation and to help them re-enter the labour market. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 981 956.
in writing. ‒ having already done so in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of the plenkovic report again. the adoption of this report marks the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 701 former employees of the belgian company duferco nlmk. the eur 981 956 granted under this fund will help these workers to find employment again, in particular through reorientation, training and counselling measures. once again, i am pleased that the european union is taking the difficulties of certain sectors, such as the metal industry, into its own hands and is able to respond effectively to them.
in writing. ‒ the european union, through its active participation in the process of globalisation and its passive trade policies, is largely responsible for the economic weakening of nations and the decommissioning of our productive apparatus. i believe that the allocation of these funds is a fair, albeit modest, compensation for the damage suffered by the peoples of the world as a result of its actions.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 708 employees at the steel companies duferco and nlmk, located in la louvière. globalisation, free movement of capital and goods, austerity policy and their promoters are responsible for this situation: while the eu's market share in crude steel production decreased by 6,7% per year between 2006 and 2011, china's market share increased by 6% per year. this is despite the fact that world production increased by 300 million tonnes during the same period. i therefore voted in favour of this aid of eur 981 956 to belgium, in favour of the victims of this forced deindustrialisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the egf to support hainaut steel, a belgian company in difficulty. i had already voted in favour of this request in the empl committee. 708 redundant workers in the belgian steel industry will benefit from this.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, 50% of the staff was made redundant in the case of these steel joint ventures located at the la louvière site in belgium. between 2006 and 2011, china's market share increased from 33,7% to 45%, while the eu's market share decreased by 5 percentage points to 11,7% in 2011. behind all these figures there is a bitter reality for the workers who have been made redundant and a profound evil: no european industrial policy. i'm not going to vote on it because i don't want to deprive the workers of that fund.
in writing. in this report we are asked to cover the damage caused by the ultra-liberal policy pursued by brussels. once again, the european union is playing the part of the pyromaniac fireman in trying to put out the fire it has started. it will thus partially compensate for the damage caused by its ultra-liberal ideology. the inconsistency of such a policy does not seem to shock anyone. i am voting for this aid to employees so as not to penalize the victims of european ultra-liberalism any further.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim is to mobilise eur 980 000 from the fund to support the redeployment of 708 employees made redundant following the closure of the duferco company and the staff reductions at nlmk. these two companies in hainaut produce base metals.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted five reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of each of these five reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 1 million from the fund for 701 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of several companies in the metal industry in the province of hainaut in belgium. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to compensate, through the european globalisation adjustment fund, all the collateral victims of certain economic operations generated on a global scale. as such, i fully support all actions aimed at strengthening cohesion within our continent by protecting its workers and which strengthen the social dimension of the european project.
in writing. ‒ the steel sector has experienced a sharp decline in europe, with steel production in the eu27 falling sharply between 2006 and 2011, even as global production has increased. the commission established the profitability of the union industry by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. this has led to the closure of many production sites, particularly in belgium. in this context, i supported the belgian request to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund. this aid will help redundant workers to reintegrate into the labour market and move into other sectors.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report in order to unlock financial and professional assistance following the 708 redundancies in two companies, following the closure of the duferco company and staff reductions in the nlmk company. these redundancies were the result of a decline in the european union market share in the steel production sector. the european globalisation adjustment fund will contribute 50% to cover the costs of actions to help people find jobs, training and retraining and promote entrepreneurship. as a longtime supporter of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which allows the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for an amount of eur 981 956 for redundant employees in the steel industry in belgium. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of measures to help 701 workers who have been made redundant as a result of the serious economic disruption affecting the steel industry. between 2006 and 2011, crude steel production in the european union decreased by 14,1%, while it increased throughout the rest of the world by 21,6%. europe lost 30% of its market share to chinese competitors in particular. in addition, other factors have aggravated the crisis in the european steel industry: falling demand in the automotive and construction sectors and rising production costs (in particular due to environmental constraints and energy prices). these various constraints have made european companies lose their competitiveness. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up on the initiative of france to help workers who lose their jobs as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ i support this request for the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because in this case we need to safeguard employment. however, we note that the union's recommendations do not go in the direction of fair globalisation, which would allow states to protect their businesses and jobs in the same way as other major powers do.
in writing. ‒ the delegation systematically votes for the 'european globalisation adjustment funds' because they are programmes to support employees of companies sometimes forced to lay off under the pressure of market deregulation, a consequence of the disastrous ultra-liberal policies applied within this european union incapable of defending neither the people who make it up nor the companies that make it live.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 1 285 employees at arcelormittal liège s.a. of these, 910 are expected to benefit from the reclassification measures. these redundancies are the result of the opening of the frontiers in the field of crude steel production. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. during the same period world production increased from 1 348.1 to 1 649.3 million tonnes. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share increased by more than 10% during the period considered. the globalisation of trade has therefore benefited asian competitors, particularly the chinese, to the detriment of european industries. i therefore voted for this aid of eur 1 591 486 to belgium to help the redeployment of employees who are victims of this deindustrialisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, although i have some reservations about the timing of the introduction of this tool, i support its primary purpose. i believe that the adjustment to globalisation should be made upstream or at the beginning of the company's financial problems rather than at the time of the number of redundancies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the release of this aid which, however questionable in principle, will help the belgian ex-employees of arcelor mittal.
in writing. belgium has applied for a financial contribution from the egf following 1 285 redundancies at arcelormittal liège sa, an enterprise in the 'manufacture de métaux de base' sector, of which 910 people are expected to participate in the measures due to severe economic disruption, including a sharp decline in the european union's market share in the steel sector. the amount allocated to this request will be eur 1 591 486 and i voted in favour of supporting the workers even though the union is the main one responsible for this situation, rejecting common sense measures such as intelligent protectionism at the borders. i have drawn up and tabled a motion for a resolution in favour of support for the european steel industry.
in writing. ‒ belgium submitted application egf/2014/012 be/arcelor mittal for a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following 1285 redundancies at arcelor mittal liège s.a. the application was rejected on the grounds that the aid was not compatible with the internal market. these redundancies are again directly linked to the decline in steel production in europe, while it is increasing elsewhere in the world. the case of arcelor mittal is also symptomatic of the economic atony of the european union's member states, neutralized by brussels directives which prohibit all forms of economic patriotism and intelligent protectionism. the european globalisation adjustment fund will not solve any of the major economic problems facing our old continent. before helping workers who have been made redundant to find work, the member states of the union should be re-industrialized in order to create jobs. i voted with little enthusiasm for this text which supports the victims of the social disaster that struck arcelor mittal.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has decided to approve the request to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund for former employees of arcelormittal in belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at the liège site. the amount allocated is eur 1 591 486. i voted in favour of this action, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ 1285 people lost their jobs at arcelormittal. the workers of this former metal giant in liège are also facing restructuring plans as a result of the changes brought about by globalisation in the steel industry. the industry is suffering a real shipwreck in europe, and although the tragedy cannot be measured in numbers, some are particularly striking: for example, between 2008 and 2013, some 280 000 workers in the european union of 27 lost their jobs in the metal industry, whose workforce fell from 1.44 million to 1.16 million people (- 19.4 million in the eu-27 and the commission has also been asked to provide information on the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and the environment protection. in five years, almost 33 000 jobs have been lost, or some 25% of the workforce. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the commission has not yet adopted a position on this matter.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 1 285 employees in the steel industry at arcelormittal liège sa, belgium has asked the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support people who have lost their jobs and to help them find a job or set up their own business. the aid granted amounts to eur 1 591 486 and covers 50% of the cost of the conversion projects to be offered to these employees. since the request of the kingdom of belgium meets the criteria for mobilising the egf, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the steel industry has been hit hard by the global economic crisis. in belgium, arcelormittal, based in liège, suffered significant economic losses which led to the laying-off of a large number of employees, in particular due to a decline in demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the european union. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, for which i voted, should help the 752 workers affected by these redundancies by providing them with a financial contribution and personalised follow-up to help them get back into work.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 1 285 employees at arcelormittal liège s.a. the opening of borders to facilitate the movement of capital and goods has particularly affected our heavy industry and steel production, which decreased by 43 million tonnes between 2007 and 2013, while world production increased sharply to 649.3 million tonnes. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. it is our competitors who benefit from globalisation and open borders, not our industries, much less our workers. i voted for this aid of eur 1 591 486 to belgium to facilitate the recruitment of former arcelormittal employees.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 1 285 employees at arcelormittal liège s.a. of these, 910 are expected to participate in the reclassification measures. these redundancies are the result of the opening of the frontiers in the field of crude steel production. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. during the same period, world production rose from 1 348.1 to 1 649.3 million tonnes. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share increased by more than 10% during the period considered. the globalisation of trade has therefore benefited our asian competitors, and in particular the chinese, to the detriment of our own industries. i therefore voted for this aid of eur 1 591 486 to belgium to help the redeployment of employees who are victims of this deindustrialisation.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 1 285 employees at arcelormittal liège s.a. the opening of borders to facilitate the movement of capital and goods has particularly affected heavy industry and steel production in france, which decreased by 43 million tonnes between 2007 and 2013, while world production increased sharply to 649,3 million tonnes. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. i voted for this aid of eur 1 591 486 to belgium to facilitate the recruitment of former arcelormittal employees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr victor negrescu, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of arcelor mittal in belgium. the fund will provide eur 1 591 million to 752 dismissed arcelor mittal employees to finance training, advisory services or start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by belgium following the 1 285 redundancies at arcelormittal liège sa. the fund was established to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in international trade resulting from globalisation or as a result of the continuing global financial and economic crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 1 591 486.
in writing. ‒ having already done so in the committee on employment and social affairs, i reiterated my vote in favour of the negrescu report. the egf will provide financial support of eur 1 591 486 to provide personalised services to redundant workers at arcelormittal (belgium) such as conversion support, liaison with potential employers and vocational training modules. this plan will enable these dismissed employees to find employment in the steel production sector or will give them the tools to adapt their skills to the new market needs.
in writing. ‒ the european union, through its active participation in the process of globalisation and its passive trade policies, is largely responsible for the economic weakening of nations and the decommissioning of our productive apparatus. i believe that the allocation of these funds is a fair, albeit modest, compensation for the damage suffered by the peoples of the world as a result of its actions.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 1 285 employees at arcelormittal liège s.a. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much higher than the union industry's market share. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. i would also like to point out that arcelormittal's share of employment in the liège region is 78.9% in the metal industry and 14.3% in the manufacturing sector. so it's going to be a disaster area. consequently, i voted in favour of this aid for former arcelormittal employees. but i would like to stress that the european union bears a great deal of responsibility for what is happening to them.
in writing. - i voted yes. this mobilisation of the fund will support 1 285 workers made redundant in the metal industry in belgium because of the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ belgium continues to suffer the full brunt of the lack of an industrial strategy for the european union. after france, arcelor mittal laid off nearly half of its employees last year at its liège site before shutting down completely by 2017. it provided more than 78% of local employment in the steel sector. and yet the site in liège made a profit of €1.39 billion in 2010, for example. this fund for aiding globalization is playing its destructive role. instead of helping workers, it encourages shareholders and states to embrace the social irresponsibility of capitalism. when will we see a beginning of a beginning of saving the european steel industry? i am voting against this text.
in writing. once again, the european union is playing the pyromaniac fireman, trying to put out the fire it has started. it will thus partially compensate for the damage caused by its ultra-liberal ideology. the inconsistency of such a policy does not seem to shock anyone. i am voting for this aid to employees so as not to penalize the victims of european ultra-liberalism any further.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim is to mobilise eur 1.6 million from the fund to support the redeployment of 1 285 employees made redundant by arcelormittal be in the liège region as a result of the brutal crisis affecting the steel industry (steel production in europe fell by 20% between 2007 and 2013, while it increased by 22% worldwide over the same period).
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted five reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of each of these five reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 1.6 million from the fund for 910 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of the company arcelor mittal in belgium. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to compensate, through the european globalisation adjustment fund, all the collateral victims of certain economic operations generated on a global scale. as such, i fully support all actions aimed at strengthening cohesion within our continent by protecting its workers and which strengthen the social dimension of the european project.
in writing. ‒ the steel sector has experienced a sharp decline in the european union during the 2000s. the main causes are the increasing international competition, the competitiveness of chinese steel companies much lower labour cost , as well as the sharp decline in steel demand in europe. this, together with the effects of the economic crisis, has led to the closure of several production sites in europe, particularly in belgium. in this context, i support the belgian request to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund. i would also like to stress the importance of this european fund in maintaining the competitiveness of european workers by offering them the opportunity to reintegrate into the labour market and to be able to train in other sectors.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report in order to unlock financial and professional assistance following the 1 285 redundancies at arcelor mittal liège s.a. due to severe economic disruption, including a sharp decline in the european union's market share in the steel sector. the european globalisation adjustment fund will provide a 60% contribution to actions to reconvert, train and develop entrepreneurship. once again, the european globalisation adjustment fund has proved its worth, and i voted in favour of this report in order to continue our commitment to a fairer europe closer to the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which allows for the allocation of eur 1 591 486 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help more than 1000 workers made redundant by arcelor mittal in belgium. arcelor mittal, like other european steel industries, has had to deal with the severe economic disruptions in the steel production sector in recent years. between 2006 and 2011, crude steel production in the european union decreased by 14,1%, while it increased throughout the rest of the world by 21,6%. europe lost 30% of its market share to chinese competitors in particular. in addition, other factors have aggravated the industrial crisis: falling demand in the automotive and construction sectors and rising production costs (notably due to environmental constraints and energy prices). these various constraints have made european companies lose their competitiveness. belgium proposes to use this sum to co-finance personalised services in three areas: retraining, training and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i support this request for the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because in this case we need to safeguard employment. however, we note that the union's recommendations do not go in the direction of fair globalisation, which would allow states to protect their businesses and jobs in the same way as other major powers do.
in writing. ‒ the delegation systematically votes for the 'european globalisation adjustment funds' because they are programmes to support employees of companies sometimes forced to lay off under the pressure of market deregulation, a consequence of the disastrous ultra-liberal policies applied within this european union incapable of defending neither the people who make it up nor the companies that make it live.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 1 030 employees at caterpillar belgium s.a. these redundancies are not only caused by the fall in demand in europe but also by the relocation of the company to countries where production costs are lower. these are the direct negative consequences of attracting foreign investment to the territory of the union, whose sole purpose is profitability, without any attachment to the territory and its people. i therefore voted in favour of this aid of eur 1 222 854 to belgium to help the redeployment of caterpillar employees who are doubly affected by globalisation: on the one hand, they suffer unfair competition from third countries; on the other hand, they are directly affected by relocations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, although i have some reservations about the timing of the introduction of this tool, i support its primary purpose. i believe that the adjustment to globalisation should be made upstream or at the beginning of the company's financial problems rather than at the time of the number of redundancies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of unlocking this aid for workers who are victims of ultra-liberalism, but i continue to denounce the inconsistency of this european union which is acting like a pyromaniac fireman.
in writing. belgium has applied for a financial contribution from the egf following the dismissal of 1 030 workers at caterpillar belgium s.a., an enterprise in the machinery and equipment manufacturing n.e.c. sector, of which 630 are expected to participate in the measures. we are being asked to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, amounting to eur 1 222 854, and i have therefore voted in favour of this request.
in writing. ‒ belgium submitted the application egf/2014/011be/caterpillar for a contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 1 030 employees. these redundancies are directly linked to the increase in imports of equipment products from asia. caterpillar is also paying for the crisis in construction and mining in europe and the growing difficulties in winning international markets against the chinese and the americans. the gosselies site, located in the charleroi region, which has the lowest employment rate in belgium (52.26%), was a structuring hub for the employment pool in the area. the redundancies will further worsen the social situation of the territory, which is already suffering from very serious economic difficulties. i have no illusions, but i voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of caterpillar.
in writing. ‒ meps voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the displaced employees of caterpillar in belgium. the amount allocated is eur 1 222 854. the dismissed workers will receive training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. the request made by belgium justifies intervention by the european globalisation adjustment fund, given the importance of asian competition in the equipment manufacturing sector. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which offers some compensation to the 1,030 caterpillar employees who have been subjected to a devastating restructuring plan. caterpillar is the world's historical leader in the production of construction and mining machinery and accessories. the sector has been hit hard by the fall in demand for these products in europe, which has led to the relocation of a large part of production capacity to third countries. the myth of globalisation is once again being shattered the caterpillar group has been developing its business in the emerging economies of asia and latin america since 2007, areas that are benefiting from the growth of the con in contrast, demand has fallen sharply in europe, with orders falling by 40% in 2011, according to the authors of the study. belgian tea.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 663 employees of caterpillar in the industrial machine tool sector, belgium has asked the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support those who have lost their jobs and to help them find work or set up their own business. the aid granted amounts to eur 1 222 854 and covers 50% of the cost of the conversion projects to be offered to these employees. since the request of the kingdom of belgium meets the criteria for mobilising the egf, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the industrial crisis which the european union has been facing for several years has hit the machine tool sector hard. the caterpillar company in belgium had to lay off 663 workers because of a drop in activity as production capacity was relocated to third countries. to help people who have been made redundant to get back to work, we voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, a relevant tool to combat the ever-increasing unemployment in the european union.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 1 030 employees at caterpillar belgium s.a. by moving its operations to countries where production costs are much lower, thanks to cheap labor, the company has put its employees out of work, plunging them into poverty. the european union must help those it has put out of work by its ultra-liberal policies. i therefore voted in favour of this aid of eur 1 222 854 to belgium. these funds are intended in particular to facilitate the recruitment of caterpillar employees.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 1 030 employees at caterpillar belgium s.a. these redundancies are not only caused by the fall in demand in europe but also by the relocation of the american company to countries where production costs are lower. here we see the negative consequences of inviting foreign investment to our soil, whose only goal is profitability, without any attachment to the territory and its people. i therefore voted in favour of this aid of eur 1 222 854 to belgium to help the redeployment of caterpillar employees who are doubly affected by globalisation: on the one hand, they suffer unfair competition from third countries; on the other hand, they are directly affected by relocations.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 1 030 employees at caterpillar belgium s.a. by moving its operations to countries where production costs are much lower, thanks to cheap labor, the company has deliberately put its employees out of work and into poverty. the european union must help those who are being made unemployed by its ultra-liberal policies. i therefore voted in favour of this aid of eur 1 222 854 to belgium. these funds are intended in particular to facilitate the recruitment of caterpillar employees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague annali jaateenmaki on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of the caterpillar company in belgium. the fund will provide eur 1.22 million to 500 caterpillar employees who have been made redundant to finance training, counselling or start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by belgium following the 1 030 redundancies at caterpillar belgium s.a. the fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them re-enter the labour market. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 1 222 854.
in writing. ‒ in continuing my work in the committee on employment and social affairs, i have again voted in favour of the jättenmäki report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 630 redundant employees of caterpillar (belgium). the egf will finance eur 1 222 854 for projects to support, guide and reintegrate employees and help them to find a job. in parallel, integrated training and transfer of experience will also be offered. the outcome of this vote once again demonstrates the european parliament's willingness to act for the victims of globalisation by offering them lasting assistance.
in writing. ‒ the european union, through its active participation in the process of globalisation and its passive trade policies, is largely responsible for the economic weakening of nations and the decommissioning of our productive apparatus. i believe that the allocation of these funds is a fair, albeit modest, compensation for the damage suffered by the peoples of the world as a result of its actions.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 1 030 employees at caterpillar belgium s.a. the relocation of activity to countries where production is much cheaper thanks to cheap labour and the ultra-liberal policy of the european union are responsible for this mass layoff plan. i therefore voted in favour of this aid of eur 1 222 854 for former belgian caterpillar employees to put an end to this ultra-liberal madness at my level.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this mobilisation of the egf in favour of caterpillar redundancies in belgium. this will help support 1 030 redundancies caused by the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the us giant thinks that belgian employees are not working fast enough, is destroying its sites in europe and is gradually relocating to asia... and the european union congratulates it. "producing and importing equipment from asia to europe has become cheaper for the company than producing in europe in a declining market", the report notes sympathetically. caterpillar is closing its site in charleroi. the remaining 40% of the workforce must increase their work rates on the assembly lines, with no guarantee for 2015. the european globalisation adjustment fund is playing its destructive role. instead of helping workers, it encourages shareholders and states to embrace the social irresponsibility of capitalism. i am voting against, so as not to be associated with what is a genuine encouragement to relocation.
in writing. once again, the european union is playing the pyromaniac fireman, trying to put out the fire it has started. it will thus partially compensate for the damage caused by its ultra-liberal dogma. the inconsistency of such a policy does not seem to shock anyone. i am voting for this aid to employees so as not to penalize the victims of european ultra-liberalism any further.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim is to mobilise eur 1.2 million from the fund to support the redeployment of 1 030 employees made redundant by caterpillar belgium s.a., which manufactured machinery and equipment in hainaut.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted five reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of each of these five reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament has given its consent to the release of eur 1.2 million from this fund for 630 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of the caterpillar company in belgium. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to compensate, through the european globalisation adjustment fund, all the collateral victims of certain economic operations generated on a global scale. as such, i fully support all actions aimed at strengthening cohesion within our continent by protecting its workers and which strengthen the social dimension of the european project.
in writing. ‒ belgium has mobilised the globalisation adjustment fund, but this time for the construction and equipment sector. i support this request and stress the need for this fund to mitigate the side effects of globalisation on european workers and to help re-skill our workers in more promising and dynamic sectors.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report in order to unlock financial and professional support following the 1 030 redundancies at caterpillar belgium s.a. due to a decline in demand in europe. the european globalisation adjustment fund will provide 60% of the financial assistance, which will cover in particular conversion actions, training and the development of entrepreneurship. as a longtime supporter of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which allows eur 1 222 854 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to be allocated to help more than 900 workers made redundant by caterpillar in belgium. the aid is intended to enable the belgian authorities to co-finance personalised services in three areas: retraining, training and retraining and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i support this request for the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because in this case we need to safeguard employment. however, we note that the union's recommendations do not go in the direction of fair globalisation, which would allow states to protect their businesses and jobs in the same way as other major powers do.
in writing. ‒ the delegation systematically votes for the 'european globalisation adjustment funds' because they are programmes to support employees of companies sometimes forced to lay off under the pressure of market deregulation, a consequence of the disastrous ultra-liberal policies applied within this european union incapable of defending neither the people who make it up nor the companies that make it live.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i do not share some of the aims of this text and regret that the protection of companies and employees is not included in the motivations, in favour of a strictly ideological vision that absolutizes competition. i also think that this text is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. whether it is the improvement of the aerodynamic performance of vehicles, their energy efficiency or the performance and safety requirements, i do not see any area in which the member states would not be able to act effectively. under the pretext of combating global warming, the commission is allowing itself to intervene in all areas, in defiance of the treaties. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext of combating global warming, the commission believes it is entitled to intervene in all areas, in defiance of the principle of subsidiarity supposedly guaranteed by the eu treaties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road network is open to international competition. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. this text should improve the aerodynamic performance of vehicles and their energy efficiency in order to reduce co2 emissions, while ensuring that they meet performance and safety requirements. this also includes facilitating intermodal transport. unfortunately, this text opens up the road network to competition rather than protecting companies and employees. in addition, infringements should be subject to appropriate measures at member state level and drivers should be able to access the information recorded by the on-board devices. i therefore voted against.
in writing. heavy goods vehicles and buses travelling within the european union must comply with a number of rules on their dimensions, according to a directive. the revision aims to improve road safety and energy savings, while improving the environmental footprint. indeed, these vehicles account for about a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. in april 2014, the european parliament adopted a position at first reading. last december, after interinstitutional negotiations, an agreement was reached and adopted in the committee on transport and tourism. i voted against this text because it is a matter for the individual member states and therefore not for the european union to intervene. moreover, the text opens up the road network to competition instead of protecting transport companies and their employees.
in writing. ‒ the draft directive before us provides for a revision of the standards for certain road vehicles in the european union. it may enable manufacturers to launch new truck models whose weight and length would be likely to exceed the limits in force. however, by failing to demonstrate the value of entrusting the european commission with the task of legislating on these relatively technical matters, and by not specifying anything strictly concerning road transport undertakings and employees, this text once again tramples on the sovereignty of the member states and prepares the way for the full opening up of the union's road infrastructure to competition. in this text, neither the principle of subsidiarity nor the protection of road hauliers is respected. that is why i voted against this draft directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the dimensions and weights of road vehicles in the community. this directive will improve road safety, protect the environment and encourage technological innovation. these are very important for the european union and for the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which not only violates the freedom of member states in transport policy but also puts road transport companies and their employees in a precarious situation. the proposal for a directive as envisaged by the council thus calls on the member states to take surveillance measures against road vehicles by making it compulsory to monitor the weight of vehicles by means of automatic monitoring systems. furthermore, member states have no control over weighing systems since they are prohibited from requiring the installation of such systems on vehicles registered in another member state. it is therefore impossible for the member states to protect national undertakings, especially since they will now be obliged to provide the commission with information on the number of checks carried out in the previous two years and the number of overloaded vehicles detected. the text thus deprives the member states of their ability to influence the daily lives of citizens, since brussels now decides the content of national public policies.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to ensure better control of the weight of certain road vehicles in order to combat the many frauds concerning the maximum volume that a heavy vehicle can carry on our roads. the text also aims to encourage investment in heavier vehicles that are safer and consume less co2 while strengthening european rules on the control of maximum authorised dimensions. this balanced agreement was the subject of difficult negotiations during the last mandate and i am particularly pleased that there is no longer any question of opening up the movement of 'mega trucks', those giant heavy goods vehicles which are currently only used locally in some countries of the union and which in my view have no place in a europe geared towards a sustainable economy, and therefore logically towards modal shift, to free movement on european roads. the original proposals of the european commission on this subject have been withdrawn, so i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the revision of directive 96/53/ec on the maximum dimensions and weights of lorries in international traffic was adopted at this european parliament plenary session. proposed in april 2013 by the european commission, this revision of the directive as amended by the parliament and the council proposes a number of innovations. thus, the size of trucks is increased and the weight of trucks is increased in the context of intermodal transport operations, i.e. combining road with rail or waterways. in addition, the revised directive will make improvements to aerodynamic design of both the cabin and the rear of the vehicles.
in writing. ‒ this text will make it possible in the future to have safer and cleaner lorries on european roads, and to improve their comfort for their drivers. another very important point is that the text prohibits the circulation of "mega trucks" weighing more than 60 tonnes. the infrastructure of the member states of the union is not all adapted to support such heavy vehicles. it was therefore essential that a limit could be set on size and weight. these new rules are a step in the right direction. member states will have a two-year period to implement them. they will also need to ensure that manufacturers and users have the time and resources to adapt to the new changes.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted on 10 march 2015 a revision of the 1996 'weight and dimensions' directive for heavy goods vehicles. although this new text does not put an end to the mega-trucks, these giant lorries which pose risks to road safety, road maintenance and the environment, i voted in favour of this revision which includes several major positive points such as the reaffirmation of the ban on lorries over 40 tonnes crossing from one country to another, as well as the generalization of the control box system to allow better monitoring of heavy goods vehicles. another key point of the revision is the enhancement of the safety and well-being of road workers through a change in the design of the cabs. finally, improving the aerodynamics of trucks and developing low-carbon engines are equally crucial issues in the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. ‒ i do not share some of the aims of this text and regret that the protection of companies and employees is not included in the motivations, in favour of a strictly ideological vision that absolutizes competition. i also think that this text is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. whether it is the improvement of the aerodynamic performance of vehicles, their energy efficiency, or the performance and safety requirements, i do not see any area in which the member states would not be able to act effectively. under the pretext of combating global warming, the commission is allowing itself to intervene in all areas, in defiance of the treaties. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this balanced text on the maximum size and weight allowed for certain road vehicles which encourages road hauliers to invest in trucks that are safer for users, safer and less polluting, because they consume less co2. these vehicles will therefore have to meet higher safety and environmental standards, and i welcome this. in particular, i am pleased that, despite the pressure, this text does not address or authorize the use in europe of 'mega trucks', those oversized 60-tonne, 25-metre long trucks. the 'mega trucks' are too dangerous and unsuitable for our infrastructure and european roads. i will continue to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which will allow manufacturers to bring safer and more environmentally friendly trucks to the market, while ensuring better protection of road infrastructure, through the introduction of specific controls on unauthorised overloading.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, this text is not intended to protect companies and employees, since it is only the result of an ideological vision of the absolutization of competition. the report seems to have left the states out of the picture, since in the various areas mentioned (e.g. aerodynamic performance of vehicles, energy efficiency, performance and safety requirements) the states seem to be competent. this text is contrary to the fundamental principle of subsidiarity. the european institutions are trying to intervene in all areas in defiance of the treaties, using the pretext of global warming. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the trilogue agreement on the new directive on weights and dimensions of road vehicles. the directive should make it possible to introduce new truck models which will improve road safety and air quality, while allowing industry a reasonable period of time to adapt before the new standards are applied. this period was necessary to ensure fair competition between manufacturers and to defend important industrial jobs throughout france. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which is good news for employment, security and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down, for certain road vehicles circulating in the community, the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic. these measures will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve road safety and facilitate intermodal transport operations, while ensuring undistorted competition and protecting road infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive to encourage the manufacture of lorries with longer driver's cabs, in order to improve safety. the text will also make future truck fleets more efficient by opening the door to the integration of co2-reducing technologies and devices that will increase driver visibility, thus improving pedestrian safety. the text also provides sufficient time for all manufacturers to prepare for the integration of these new standards and will thus help to preserve important industrial jobs throughout france.
in writing. ‒ under cover of environmental requirements, in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and transport safety, the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the maximum authorised dimensions and maximum authorised weights of certain vehicles in circulation in the community is a step towards opening up european road networks to competition through enhanced regulatory harmonisation. i had already opposed this text in the previous parliament and the recommendation for second reading which is before us does not correct any shortcomings but strengthens the requirements for road vehicle control and the standards imposed on the states for the management of networks and tolls. i voted against this text, which is more concerned with building a supranational regulatory system than with protecting companies and road workers, who are threatened by the single market project and the liberalisation of the network.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it opens up the road network even more to international competition, which will increase the difficulties of french transport companies and encourage social dumping. it also allows the manufacture of trucks with longer cabs, which should improve the safety of drivers in the event of a collision. and it sets a higher weight limit, which should encourage the embarkation of cleaner fuel systems. but these two advantages do not compensate for the fundamental flaw of the text as described above.
in writing. - i vote against it. parliament refuses to allow member states to impose certain controls (in-vehicle weighing system) and infringements cannot be classified according to their seriousness with an appropriate penalty. we also reject the commission's role as a control body, to which the member states will have to provide information on the number of checks carried out. we believe that this initiative will lead to increased competition and therefore pose a danger to our companies and their employees.
in writing. - i voted against it. this decision and the management of these infringements are a matter for the member states and not for the european union and should not be discussed here. moreover, this text opens up the road network to competition rather than protecting european and therefore french companies and employees.
in writing. ‒ technological developments offer the possibility of adding retractable or folding aerodynamic devices to the rear of vehicles, allowing for significant energy savings. however, these devices would result in exceeding the maximum lengths allowed under council directive 96/53/ec. a derogation from the maximum lengths is therefore necessary, and that is the subject of this text. the proposal therefore aims to limit pollution from buses and lorries. of course, these measures will remain a long shot until real ecological planning will make it possible to reduce road transport to rail. i am abstaining in this context in order not to prevent these meagre advances while denouncing the commission's lack of ambition in reducing greenhouse gases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which subjects truck manufacturers to new rules allowing them to produce vehicles with cabs that improve visibility and cleaner engines. this will ultimately help to increase road safety and protect the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this directive, of course, because it is the result of tough negotiations to preserve fair competition between manufacturers and to defend important industrial jobs throughout france. with this text, the european union is contributing to safer roads, better air quality and the preservation of a very large number of jobs.
in writing. ‒ following negotiations with the council of the european union and the vote of meps in the committee on transport and tourism, the european parliament voted no to mega-trucks in a plenary vote on the directive on the weights and dimensions of heavy vehicles. it is a victory for the protection of the quality of life of europeans. thanks to the vote of the european parliament, our towns and villages will no longer be crossed by lorries 25 metres long and weighing more than 60 tonnes! the vote is also the culmination of a long struggle by socialist members against the commission's proposal to allow the cross-border movement of mega-trucks. this vote is a positive signal for the reduction of co2 emissions and the promotion of the modal shift from road freight to rail. the text also takes account of user safety and environmental protection by incorporating provisions to promote alternative fuels and vehicle aerodynamics.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the proposal is to make our trucks safer and more comfortable, more environmentally friendly and suitable for multimodal transport. i therefore welcome its adoption, which brings european legislation into line with recent technological developments. the adjustment of vehicle dimensions standards will allow the addition of aerodynamic features, improved cabin profiles and better energy absorption in the event of an accident. the increase in the average weight of passengers and their luggage and the equipment with alternative propulsion systems (hydrogen, electricity, etc.) involving the addition of batteries or dual engines were also taken into account. finally, i am pleased to see that on the question of the international movement of mega-trucks originally considered by the commission, it has been decided to maintain the status quo. we're not ready for such a change. it is regrettable, however, that the new standards set may not come into force until 2020 as a result of the action of some member states, under pressure from their manufacturers. that's how long the public will be unable to benefit from the advances in heavy-duty innovation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the revision of the 1996 heavy goods vehicle weight and dimensions directive. the new text brings about considerable improvements in road transport. the aim is to change the design of the cabs in order to improve the safety of road users in the event of an accident and to ensure greater driver comfort. it also improves aerodynamics with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on the environment. i regret, however, that this new text does not mark the end of the mega-trucks or "gigaliners". these vehicles, which can weigh up to 60 tonnes, raise major concerns for road safety and the environment. one reason is that they divert freight from rail to road, whereas rail should be preferred. it also encourages the adoption of new standards favouring commercial trucks or buses with low-carbon engines. the directive should also ensure better control of heavy goods vehicles by extending the control box system, which is still too little used in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the maximum dimensions and weights of certain road vehicles. the text aims in particular to adapt the dimensions provided for to take account of technological developments. for example, new aerodynamic features generate many gains, but add to the rear and thus can lengthen vehicles. in approving this amendment, our assembly is stressing the imperative of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and in particular co2, but also of improving safety on our roads. with new cab design, blind spots for drivers can be reduced. this will save the lives of both drivers and vulnerable road users such as pedestrians and cyclists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which allows the introduction of new types of trucks with higher performance and with the integration of technologies that emit less co2, devices that will increase visibility for drivers and therefore the safety of other users. a delay was obtained to allow manufacturers time to prepare for these changes and the integration of these new standards. the aim is also to combat fraud in relation to the maximum volume that a heavy goods vehicle can carry on european roads. with this vote we have increased road safety and defended industrial jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which will allow manufacturers to design safer and greener trucks. the new directive amends a 1996 text on the weight and dimensions of trucks to allow exemptions from the current limits and to improve their environmental performance and safety. parliament has fought to introduce a sufficient time limit for all manufacturers to adapt to the new standards, thus preserving fair competition between manufacturers for the benefit of employment.
in writing. ‒ at first reading (april 2014), the three fn meps voted contra this text which was finally adopted by parliament. the text amended the commission proposal, in particular as regards controls and infringements. the amended text proposed a classification of offences according to their gravity and the penalties for each. the council partially incorporated the european parliament's proposal. the council also does not follow the commission in classifying offences into categories. it replaces it by an obligation on member states to determine the system of penalties applicable to infringements of the directive. they are required to provide the commission with information on the number of checks carried out in the previous two calendar years and the number of overloaded vehicles detected. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from harmful exposure to asbestos. infringements shall be subject to appropriate measures at member state level.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ this report does not bring the expected transformations on this subject which is essential for european economies. the stimulus of longterm investment is one of the main channels of industrial recovery and job creation. the european long-term investment funds are a welcome proposal and meet the financing needs of the real economy. however, the eligible investments are not clearly defined by their sectoral impact and weight which would, in the context of a realistic and committed economic and industrial policy, respond to the definition of national priorities and strategies. although i approve of the proposal to leave, i abstained because of the lack of clarity and visibility in the management of a recovery at national level.
in writing. ‒ i do not exclude the possibility that smes may benefit from the establishment of these european long-term investment funds (feilt or eltif in english), a new category of financial instruments that is to be created. but in view of the organized vagueness of mr lamassoure's report on the rules supposed to govern investment, the risk does not seem to me to be negligible and i preferred to abstain on this report.
in writing. this supplementary report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds lacks clarity since the investment forecasts put forward by brussels appear to be overestimated. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. however, i abstained on that text.
in writing. the purpose of this regulation is to create a new financial instrument, the eltif. the instruments that exist are ill-suited to long-term saving. they are subject to prudential standards, the prospectus directive and retail investors are subject to a strengthened advisory obligation. making europe a financial hub can be beneficial for france. the mediation would allow investors to diversify their portfolios and companies to access more sources of financing. i abstained on that text. indeed, caution is required with any new financial instrument. in addition, there is some confusion about certain investment rules. however, i welcome the fact that these instruments are intended for the long-term financing of smes, which are the engine of our economy. but i criticise the fact that while the aim of eltifs is to finance long-term projects, they are only obliged to invest 70% in such projects. for the same reason, i have reservations about the possibility of an early release. in addition, the fund may waive diversification obligations according to rather complex rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european long-term investment funds. this will undoubtedly encourage investors to invest in long-term projects. we need it badly in europe. this, together with the investment plan of the commission of jean-claude juncker, will help to bring the rate of investment within the union back on track and thus stimulate growth and employment in europe. i congratulate my colleague alain lamassoure on this report.
in writing. - i preferred to abstain on this report. this is a new financial instrument, and we have no objections to it at the moment. it is true that these funds are mainly geared to financing smes, which is a very good thing. in addition, they favour long-term investments over speculative products, which is also very positive. however, some investment rules remain unclear: while the aim of eltifs is to finance long-term projects, investors are only required to invest up to 70%; the remaining 30% can therefore be related to cash, other shorter-term projects or alternative investments. i also remain skeptical about the possibility of an early exit with derogations, even though the principle of the fund is that the investor is committed until the project is completed.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislative proposal is to increase the pool of capital available for long-term investment in the real economy of the european union. to this end, the text creates a regulatory framework for a new form of financing vehicle, the european long-term investment funds, in order to subject these funds to consistent rules across the european union and to enable investors to identify them throughout the union. considering that this proposal will facilitate the flow of capital into the real economy, in line with the european objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. contrary to current belief, the investment deficit in europe is not new. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. the european union is now providing a common regulatory framework that is easily identifiable to investors, in order to ensure that the level of investment returns to its pre-crisis level.
in writing. ‒ the european union needs structural and innovative investment to get back on the path to sustainable growth. the adoption of this report on the creation of the european long-term investment fund is a step in the right direction and will increase the options for long-term financing of projects in research, innovation, infrastructure or energy. the fund will be one of the tools of the commission's investment plan and a further step towards the market and capital union, which is intended, among other things, to facilitate the financing of european smes.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's text does not bring the expected changes to a subject which is essential to european economies. the stimulus of longterm investment is one of the main channels of industrial recovery and job creation. the european long-term investment funds are therefore a welcome proposal and meet the financing needs of the real economy. however, it appears that eligible investments are not clearly defined by their sectoral impact and weight which would, in the context of a realistic and committed economic and industrial policy, respond to the definition of national priorities and strategies. despite the good proposal at the outset, i abstained because of the lack of clarity and visibility in the management of a recovery at national level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this draft european long-term investment fund (eltif). these funds may be useful, since they are intended to finance the real economy through long-term infrastructure. nevertheless, the exclusion of the member states from the management of these funds is harmful because it gives the european union full power to choose the beneficiaries of these funds. it is therefore illusory to think that the eurocrats will stimulate the real economy. the big multinationals will get the lion's share and the small businesses will be left behind once again. finally, eltifs risk allowing unsuspecting investors to take control of smes, in particular by allowing them to circumvent the thresholds.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's text does not bring the expected changes to a subject which is essential to european economies. long-term investment is sorely lacking in our economy, even though it is enabling economic recovery and industrial recovery. the provision of funds for this purpose responds to a real need for financing in the real economy. but the text does not give any details of the investments that will be made, nor what the overall economic strategy at national level will be. despite the good starting point, the lack of vision and clarity of this text led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague alain lamassoure establishing a regulation to increase the capital available for long-term investment in the european economy. these investments must be beneficial to the european economy and growth and not fuel speculation, while ensuring full protection and information for investors. this report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds. long-term financing is essential to enable the european economy to move towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide long-term financing for a variety of projects. eltifs thus contribute to the financing of the real economy and the implementation of union policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment of a european long-term investment fund, for which alain lamassoure was rapporteur. this fund follows the strategy set up by former internal market and financial services commissioner michel barnier to restore the european economy to the means to finance itself and get back on the path to growth. this agreement is an excellent signal to economic actors as discussions continue on the establishment of the european fund for strategic investments, which is expected to finance the equivalent of eur 315 billion of investment projects in europe, the so-called juncker plan.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's text does not bring the expected changes to a subject which is essential to european economies. the stimulus of longterm investment is one of the main channels of industrial recovery and job creation. the european long-term investment funds are therefore a welcome proposal and meet the financing needs of the real economy. however, it appears that eligible investments are not clearly defined by their sectoral impact and weight which would, in the context of a realistic and committed economic and industrial policy, respond to the definition of national priorities and strategies. despite the good proposal at the outset, i abstained because of the lack of clarity and visibility in the management of a recovery at national level.
in writing. - i decided not to. some investment rules remain too vague to be decided with certainty. moreover, given the current economic situation, it seems surprising that the commission can achieve positive results in terms of job creation or development. the text is too vague to be judged on the basis of the facts.
in writing. ‒ long-term financing is essential to support the european real economy. in june 2013, the commission published a legislative proposal for the introduction of a framework for collective investment that would allow investors to put money into companies and projects that require long-term capital. these european long-term investment funds (eltifs) provide financing to various long-term infrastructure projects, unlisted companies and smes, which issue equity or debt instruments for which there is no readily identifiable buyer. but attempts to shift these investments towards social and environmental sustainability have not been taken into account. in addition, investment priority is given to public-private partnerships and privatisations. the regulation thus fails completely to achieve the necessary objectives. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ financial instruments that redirect savings to the real economy and long-term projects, rather than speculation, should be encouraged. eltifs have a stake in this. these funds are based on long-term investments in smes, with no possibility of early exit. so the principle is good. the proposed regulation allows up to 30% of other investments and gives managers the possibility of anticipating the early exit of the fund. secondly, these funds can serve as a screen for creeping equity take-overs, without threshold declarations. finally, there is no provision for investment to be targeted at european countries. for all these reasons, we must remain vigilant as to what will become of these instruments and abstain on the report.
in writing. i abstained on this supplementary report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european long-term investment funds on the grounds that the forecasts put forward by brussels seem to me to be overestimated. the european union is not clear on this point either.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, of course, because it proposes to boost long-term investment in the real economy through the european long-term investment funds. the return of jobs in europe requires these strategic investments and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. ‒ i support the rules adopted for european long-term investment funds, because i consider investment to be a key element for the healthy development of our economies. that is why i voted for the report on the european long-term investment funds.
in writing. ‒ at a time when the new juncker commission is focusing on competitiveness and growth, it is necessary to regulate and control the different types of investment. the european parliament gave its opinion on the european long-term investment funds. i voted in favour of this text. this funding is crucial to achieve the europe 2020 objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive european growth. these funds are essential to enable the actors concerned, and in particular the regional and local authorities, to undertake projects for the future.
in writing. ‒ many projects, which are essential for europe's economic recovery, require a long-term financial commitment: transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure are examples. i therefore voted in favour of the commission's proposal to create european longterm investment funds (eltifs). by targeting actors such as pension funds and insurance companies, this new tool should encourage non-bank investment in certain projects. in addition, this new collective investment framework should allow for economies of scale and critical mass, while reducing market fragmentation and thus regulatory uncertainty. the next step is to align eltifs with the proposal for a european fund for strategic investments as presented in the juncker plan published last november.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by alain lamassoure which launched a new and effective tool which will not only promote long-term investment financing but also help build the capital markets union. given the current crisis and investment deficit, we need to find a solution to boost economic growth, allow financial stability and remove barriers to cross-border investment while ensuring consumer protection. the aim of these instruments is to boost the activities of smes by granting loans to encourage their development and growth. these european long-term investment funds will help professionals, insurance companies, pension funds and retail investors who want to invest at least eur 10 000 in the long term to invest in projects that serve the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by my colleague alain lamassoure, which allows the creation of european long-term investment funds (eltif) to redirect financial resources towards the real economy. indeed, there is a lot of liquidity available, but investments have fallen by 15% since 2008. very little of this capital is mobilised for long-term financing of infrastructure, equipment, educational or research centres. eltifs will support the creation of new 'investment vehicles' that will stabilise assets in exchange for attractive premiums. the aim is to attract investment funds, pension funds and insurance companies through a flexible and attractive framework, in order to boost the growth and competitiveness of our economies.
in writing. ‒ the new financial products which are supposed to promote the long term and which are presented in this report, although they may be based on a correct intuition, do not seem to us to offer the necessary guarantees as regards their possible misuse and the power of control which the states should exercise over them. in addition, there is a high risk of having profitable investments which are only made in the nordic countries which do not need them, in the absence of an investment agency promoting long-term profitable investments in the context of sectors, such as energy saving or new energy (financing companies, craft industries, companies selling equipment). therefore, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ we can be against borderless markets for goods and services while being in favour of deeper and more unified capital markets. for investors, this allows for diversification of the projects and companies in which they invest; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. there are two arguments in favour of these funds. firstly, they are geared to financing smes. secondly, they are an instrument which favours the long term, unlike speculative products. we are against qatar buying our national assets, without prohibiting anyone from investing in our country, let alone in our smes. what we must combat are toxic, speculative products, developed for immediate profit and which are a source of instability and diversion of savings from the needs of the real economy. the french delegation of the fn therefore takes a cautious position by abstaining from voting on this new financial instrument, particularly in view of the vagueness surrounding certain investment rules.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ charges for credit card payments reveal the lack of interoperability between terminals and are an obstacle to better competition. the caps on fees for debit or credit card payments proposed in this report are a welcome step forward, which i welcome. i voted in favour of this text, which improves the conditions of competition, economic activity and transparency in the management of means of payment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it is in the interests of both consumers and merchants: too often, some cards are still refused, especially abroad, and some small merchants continue to refuse cards below a certain amount. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to make a full contribution to the work of the european parliament. the regulation will probably not solve these various problems, but it is a step in the right direction.
in writing. this supplementary report on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions is a positive development as it is moving towards increasing security. it also reduces the costs borne by consumers by introducing caps (0.2% for crossborder transactions, 0.2% or eur 0.05 for domestic transactions or 0.3% for credit card transactions). i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted for this because its aim is to limit bank charges and to force networks to be more competitive by accepting different cards by terminals. although the regulation could go further, particularly on the interoperability of payment terminals, it is a step forward. interchange fees are fees charged by card issuers to merchants offering card payments. these are in practice reflected in the selling prices. this constitutes a restriction of competition within the meaning of the treaties and the case law of the court of justice. the report proposes a cap on bank fees at 0.3% of the transaction amount for credit card payments and 0.2% for debit cards, with the possibility for member states to set lower caps. the challenge to the exclusivity clauses in licensing agreements required by card providers and the various technical mechanisms that limit the possibility of using different cards from the same payment terminal is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ interchange fees are fees charged by card issuers to companies offering card payment services. the cost of these commissions is directly passed on to the consumer price. these interchange fees encourage companies to refuse card payments below a certain amount and for products with very low added value (e.g. tobacco). hence the cap on commissions at 0,3% of the transaction amount. the proposal also aims to tackle the exclusivity clauses in licensing agreements required by card providers and the various technical mechanisms which limit the possibility of using different cards from the same payment terminal. the draft regulation is therefore a real step forward for the consumer, since it will allow him to control the fall in sales prices in the transactions concerned. moreover, it seems that the adoption of such a regulation at european level is rather appropriate in view of the interoperability of payment terminals. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. this measure will ensure fair and transparent competition in card payments. consumers will then be better informed about the cost of card transactions and can make their choices on the basis of this information. this type of measure is a first step towards greater transparency in the banking sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is about a proposal for a regulation which will be beneficial for the consumer, both in terms of purchasing power and in terms of transparency of information. the regulation provides that, in the case of crossborder transactions carried out by bank card, the bank's commission would be capped at 0.3% of the transaction amount; for transactions made by debit card, the ceiling would be 0.2% of the transaction amount. the framework of this regulation also allows member states to retain their competence in this area, since they have the possibility of setting lower ceilings. this regulation also helps to deal with the fact that too often certain cards are refused abroad; the consumer's cards will now be accepted more easily, making it easier to pay for purchases. good news for the purchasing power of the french.
in writing. the aim of the text is to regulate interchange fees for card-related payment transactions. because these interchange fees represent a significant proportion of the fees charged to traders by the companies providing this service, their level affects the purchasing power of europeans. the costs imposed on traders are passed on to consumers. by placing a ceiling on the fees charged to payment service providers, the text is moving in the right direction, that of protecting the purchasing power of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislative proposal is to establish common rules on interchange fees in the european union by placing a cap on such fees for transactions carried out using payment cards. as these payment cards are widely used by consumers and as the legislative proposal provides, in addition to capping fees, for increased transparency measures for retailers and consumers, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the fees charged by banks for payments to retailers differ from one member state to another and there is a lack of transparency in these transactions. the capping of these payments, whether transnational or national, will allow a certain uniformity of european rules and thus more transparency. this is in the interests of the european consumer and his right to information.
in writing. ‒ the costs of card payments reveal the lack of interoperability between terminals and are an obstacle to better competition. the proposed caps on fees for debit and credit card payments are also a welcome step forward, which i support. i voted in favour of the whole of this text, which improves the conditions of competition, economic activity and transparency in the management of means of payment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on interchange fees for card-related payment transactions. the aim of the project is to limit these fees to a maximum of 0.2% of the value of the transaction for any credit card transaction. this cap will reduce the costs of traders, which should also benefit consumers, since traders pass on their costs to the price of their goods and services. a decrease in the costs of interchange fees is therefore likely to lower the prices paid by consumers.
in writing. ‒ this text facilitates fair competition and transparency in the area of payment methods. it breaks down some barriers to interoperability between terminals, while raising commission ceilings which i consider to be valuable. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pablo zalba bidegain on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. the text aims to reduce interchange fees (fees paid by financial institutions for credit and debit transactions), and aims at greater transparency (obligation for banks to inform on the rates applied, maximum 0.3%) and mechanically to competition, and thus a reduction in costs borne by consumers. i welcome the adoption by a large majority of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the regulation on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. the aim of the new system is to cap interchange fees and to standardise the technical and commercial aspects of card-based payment transactions within the union. the wide variety of interchange fees currently in existence has led to a fragmentation of the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of legislation to cap the fees charged by banks to merchants for processing credit card payments made by their customers. this will lead to a real reduction in costs for consumers as well as for traders.
in writing. ‒ the costs of card payments reveal the lack of interoperability between terminals and are an obstacle to better competition. the proposed caps on fees for debit and credit card payments are also a welcome step forward, which i support. i voted in favour of the whole of this text, which improves the conditions of competition, economic activity and transparency in the management of means of payment.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this because it caps the cost of each crossborder transaction by credit card at 0.2% of the value of the transaction. in five years' time, the same ceiling will apply to domestic transactions. this text thus doubly protects the interests of consumers.
in writing. the issuers of credit cards charge merchants a fee, the interchange fee, which is passed on to the selling price. the aim of the regulation is to cap these fees, to make them more transparent, to address exclusivity clauses and the various technical mechanisms that limit the possibility of using different cards from the same payment terminal. this is in the interests of consumers and merchants, as it will result in lower commissions and easier acceptance of all types of cards for payment of purchases. some cards are still often rejected, particularly abroad, and some small shops continue to refuse cards below a certain amount. the settlement improves the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this proposal because it is a step in the right direction to limit bank charges and force the networks to compete more. the text also leaves the member states free to intervene with further reductions in national transactions, and the fees for card transactions are officially increased: interchange fees for debit cards cannot exceed 0.2% and 0.3% for credit cards.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation aims to improve the functioning of the internal market for card payments. one of the main obstacles to card payments is the widespread existence of interchange fees. interchange fees are interbank fees charged between acquiring banks and card issuers. each year, 9 billion euros of interchange fees are levied in the european union. merchants, in turn, pass these card-related costs on to the price of their goods and services. in practice, competition between card schemes aims to convince the largest number of payment service providers to choose their cards, which generally leads to higher costs (advertising, ancillary benefits, etc.). in fact, it is a private consumption tax. the regulation provides that 'payment service providers shall not offer or request a transaction fee of more than 0,2% of the transaction value for any debit card transaction [and] 0,3% for credit cards'. the aim is therefore to tackle (somewhat) the profits of the banks in order to reduce the cost to consumers. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the proposed text brings two improvements that will benefit consumers and traders. reducing and capping interchange fees on bank cards, even for small amounts, contributes to a fall in consumer prices. by promoting the interoperability of payment terminals and by breaking down certain restrictions on the use of competing network cards, a step is also being taken towards wider acceptance of all bank cards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of this supplementary report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions. this text is in fact in the direction of greater security, which seems to be a positive element.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which introduces more transparency in the area of interchange fees for transactions carried out with a payment card. these fees, which are paid by the merchant's bank to the bank which issued the customer's card, vary from one member state to another. the text i voted for requires banks to report transparently on these fees and caps them at 0.3% of the transaction. since traders pass on interchange fees to their prices, this text will therefore restore purchasing power to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this supplementary report because it sets out rules on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions with a view to contributing to the establishment of a european union-wide payments market. i am therefore in favour of greater harmonization of these practices in order to simplify and promote the trading system on our continent.
‒ some might see the capping of card fees as a restriction on the freedom to conduct a business. but in my opinion, this is not the case, because it is the small consumers, the small traders and the small businessmen against the powerful banking entities that are able to restrict the free market. on the contrary, in the interests of defending the single market, clear rules should therefore be adopted. that is the kind of rule that i think the report has brought about and that is why i support it.
in writing. ‒ european citizens can move freely within the schengen area, but borders reappear every time they make a payment by credit card in another member state. it is time to remove this obstacle and reduce the burden on european citizens. the european parliament has just adopted in plenary by a very large majority a text on the capping of interchange fees for card-related payment transactions. i am glad that i voted in favour of this text. it is important that parliament should take responsibility for reducing as far as possible the obstacles and costs which interfere with the daily lives of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this new regulation on bank charges for credit and debit cards because it will have direct positive effects for both merchants and consumers. the new rules also address the problem of the lack of competition in the payment card sector, which forces merchants to accept excessive charges in order to offer this service to their customers. this is therefore a concrete example of european legislation having a direct positive impact on people's daily lives. by reducing these costs by around €6 billion, the new rules will help to redistribute the benefits of the visa/mastercard duopoly to the benefit of consumers, who are normally the ones who are affected by the commission charges.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of capping interchange fees for card-related payment transactions and i supported this report. each time a consumer makes a payment by card, interchange fees are charged by the cardholder's bank to a retailer's bank. as the most commonly used payment instrument, these fees will be passed on to millions of consumers without their being aware of it. we have therefore decided to cap the fees for credit card and debit card transactions in all member states in order to bring the amounts applied closer together. through this text, we are reducing the fragmentation of the internal market which is detrimental to europe's economic growth and activity and we are establishing a safe and efficient framework for electronic payments for both consumers and traders.
in writing. ‒ this report will help to establish uniform rules for credit card payments in europe. the commission will also be able to take account of the fact that the european union has already adopted a number of measures to combat fraud, such as the introduction of a new system of checks on the movement of goods and services between member states. this cap on card charges could have a long-term impact, leading to reduced costs for consumers and merchants alike. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which introduces provisions to cap the fees charged by banks to retailers for credit card payments. the aim is to regulate the fees for national and crossborder card payments in order to reduce the final cost to users.
in writing. ‒ we believe that this report is moving in the direction of lower interchange fees for using a payment card, thus facilitating transparency, which is good for businesses. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the sums involved are huge for the card providers, but relatively painless for the consumer. nevertheless, it is in the interest of both the consumer and the merchant to see commissions reduced and to be able to accept any type of card more easily for the payment of purchases. all too often, some cards are rejected, particularly abroad, and some small shops continue to refuse cards below a certain amount. the regulation will not necessarily solve this last point, but it improves it. although the regulation could go further, particularly on the interoperability of payment terminals, it is a step forward. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, although i have some reservations about the timing of the introduction of this tool, i support its primary purpose. i believe that support for globalisation should be provided upstream or at the beginning of the company's financial problems rather than at the time of the number of redundancies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, knowing full well that this 'adjustment fund' is only a setback: if the european union really wants to combat the harmful effects of globalisation, it must renounce the dogma of the free movement of goods and people and no longer stand in the way of the introduction of protectionist measures. i note that belgium, the host country of most of the european institutions, is particularly affected by the irresponsible policies of the eurocrats who sacrifice europe's industries on the altar of the sacred free movement of goods, capital and people.
in writing. belgium has applied for a financial contribution from the egf following 257 redundancies as a result of the closure of a site of the saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) group, located in auvelais, which produced safety glass for the automotive industry. we are being asked to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 1 339 928. i voted for this aid to support workers who are victims of globalisation and the consequences of the ultra-liberal policies which the european union is advocating.
in writing. ‒ belgium submitted application egf/2013/011 be/saint-gobain sekurit for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund following 257 redundancies linked to the closure of a site belonging to the saint-gobain (sgs) group specialised in the production of safety glass for the automotive sector. the amount of the contribution requested by belgium is eur 1 339 928, which is a considerable sum. the closure of this site is a consequence of the crisis in the automobile industry affecting the european market. the report also points out that 83% of the redundant employees have the status of worker, which will require a complete and therefore costly professional conversion. given the state of the labour market, there is no reason to believe that the sums paid by the union will have any positive impact on the vocational reintegration of these 257 dismissed employees. however, i voted in favour of the financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ parliament decided to accept the request for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the employees of saint-gobain sekurit in belgium, which is severely affected by the employment consequences of globalisation. the amount of the aid is eur 1 339 928. 257 redundant employees will receive training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. the request of belgium is justified in view of the significant global competition in the sector of safety glass for the automotive industry. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european globalisation adjustment fund should help the 257 employees of saint-gobain sekurit, who are suffering the full impact of the crisis in the automotive industry. gs benelux was a manufacturer of original equipment for safety glass for motor vehicles (windshields, side windows, etc.) supplying various car manufacturers, which implies that its activities were closely linked to the production trends of the automotive industry. according to the data cited by the belgian authorities, passenger car production in the eu-27 between 2007 and 2012 increased from 21.9 to 19.5 million units (−11.3%; −2.4% annual growth), while in the rest of the world it increased from 47.5 to 60.6 million units (+ 27.6%; + 5.0% annual growth). the fact that the number of employees in saint-gobain is increasing every year is a sign of the fact that the company is facing competition from turkish and chinese factories, which, as we know, are not subject to the same conditions as the workers in the united states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the european commission has published a report on the impact of the euro on the european economy. the european union is a
in writing. belgium, already hard hit by the difficulties of the steel industry, is facing the closure of a major production site, which will undoubtedly result in the loss of a large number of jobs in the lower sambre region. in addition to the 257 employees made redundant, the closure of the saint-gobain sekurit benelux production site will have consequences for subcontractors and, in general, for all economic activity in a region. to address this, belgium has requested the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to co-finance labour market reintegration measures. the egf will provide eur 1 339 928, representing 50% of the total cost, to provide individual support for employees in their job search and to offer training and retraining.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 260 employees at sgs benelux and 300 employees at saint-gobain glass benelux in the safety glass industry, belgium has asked the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support people who have lost their jobs and to help them find a job or set up their own business. the aid granted amounts to eur 1 339 928 and covers 50% of the cost of the conversion projects to be offered to these employees. since the request of the kingdom of belgium meets the criteria for mobilising the egf, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 257 employees. the decline in car production and therefore in safety glass had led to the cessation of activities and subsequent closure of a saint-gobain group site in auvelais. the production of vehicles in the union increased from 21,9 million to 19,5 million units between 2007 and 2012. in the same period, it increased by 13 million units in the rest of the world. the european union's free trade policy has led to an increase in vehicle imports and a decline in our domestic production. i voted in favour of this aid of eur 1 339 928 to belgium in order not to abandon the victims of this globalisation encouraged by brussels.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 257 employees. the redundancies were the result of the closure of a site of the saint-gobain sekurit group in auvelais, which produced safety glass for the automotive industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the production of vehicles in the union increased from 21,9 million to 19,5 million units between 2007 and 2012. during the same period, it rose from 47.5 to 60.6 million units in the rest of the world. once again, the european union's free trade policy has led to an increase in vehicle imports and a decline in our domestic production. i voted in favour of this aid of eur 1 339 928 to belgium, to help the victims of this globalist policy which is accelerating the deindustrialization of european countries, especially those in western europe.
in writing. ‒ belgium has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 257 employees. the decline in car production and therefore in safety glass had led to the cessation of activities and subsequent closure of a saint-gobain group site in auvelais. the production of vehicles in the union increased from 21,9 million to 19,5 million units between 2007 and 2012. in the same period, it increased by 13 million units in the rest of the world. the european union's free trade policy has led to an increase in vehicle imports and a decline in our domestic production. i voted in favour of this aid of eur 1 339 928 to belgium in order not to abandon the victims of this globalisation encouraged by brussels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague liadh ní riada on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of saint-gobain in belgium. the fund will provide eur 1.34 million to 257 dismissed saint-gobain employees to finance training, advisory services or start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by belgium following 257 redundancies following the closure of a site of the saint-gobain sekurit (sgs) group, located in auvelais. the fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 1 339 928.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ni riada report, which i had already supported in the committee on employment and social affairs. the adoption of this report demonstrates the european union's ability to respond effectively to the challenges and difficulties posed by globalisation. 257 redundant employees of the belgian company saint-gobain sekurit will receive eur 1 339 928 from the eu to help finance a reorientation and training plan. the plan will also enable these former glass workers to adapt their skills and know-how to the new market needs so that they can quickly find employment again.
in writing. ‒ the european union, through its active participation in the process of globalisation and its passive trade policies, is largely responsible for the economic weakening of nations and the decommissioning of our productive apparatus. i believe that the allocation of these funds is a fair, albeit modest, compensation for the damage suffered by the peoples of the world as a result of its actions.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this request for mobilisation of the egf to support 257 saint-gobain redundant workers in the automotive safety glass production sector affected by the closure of the auvelais plant.
in writing. ‒ the belgian site of the french group saint-gobain sekurit is closing and the approximately 300 employees are being laid off. the report does note the industrial problem in europe but does not draw any lessons from it: "the general tendency of manufacturers and suppliers of the automotive industry to transfer production within the union from western europe (particularly france, belgium and spain) to eastern europe". again, the main solution recommended to dismissed employees is to set up their own business. what cynicism! these workers who have been made redundant have been able to benefit from this 'globalisation aid' fund thanks to the work of the members of my group in circumventing the regulation which normally provides for a minimum threshold of 500 redundant workers to benefit from it. i abstain in order not to deprive the workers of this fund.
in writing. once again, the european union is playing the pyromaniac fireman, trying to put out the fire it has started. it will thus partially compensate for the damage caused by its ultra-liberal ideology. the inconsistency of such a policy does not seem to shock anyone. i am voting for this aid to employees so as not to penalize the victims of european ultra-liberalism any further.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim is to mobilise the fund to the tune of eur 1.3 million to support the redeployment of 257 employees made redundant following the closure of the saint-gobain sekurit site in auvelais. the site produced safety glass for the automotive industry.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted a report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of this report. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament has given its consent to the release of eur 1.3 million from the fund for 257 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of the saint-gobain sekurit benelux company in belgium. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. ‒ faced with increased competition from developing and emerging countries in the glass production sector, and with the decline in demand for glass within the union, european companies have had to close several production sites. many workers were laid off. with this in mind, belgium has once again applied for the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of this request. on the one hand, it was in line with the fund's rules, and on the other hand, i think it is important to support our markets, our companies and our workers. this aid will focus mainly on the reintegration of these workers (economic aid, training).
in writing. ‒ i supported this report in order to unlock financial and professional support for the 257 employees of saint-gobain sekurit in belgium. these were dismissed following the decline in production of safety glass for motor vehicles in the european union and the increase in market shares of competitors from third countries. in order to adapt to these changes, the saint-gobain group has implemented a series of strategies to strengthen competitiveness and profitability, leading to various restructuring measures. the european globalisation adjustment fund will provide financial support of 50% covering individual jobsearch, training and retraining, entrepreneurship promotion and allowances. as a longtime supporter of the european globalisation adjustment fund, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which allows the activation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 1.3 million for the redundant employees of the company saint-gobain sekurit benelux. this company, which specialises in the production of safety glass for the automotive industry, has experienced serious economic disruption, in particular due to the decline in car sales in the union and the relocation of production centres to eastern europe. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up on the initiative of france to help workers who lose their jobs as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade.
in writing. ‒ i support this request for the implementation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, because in this case we need to safeguard employment. however, we note that the union's recommendations do not go in the direction of fair globalisation, which would allow states to protect their businesses and jobs in the same way as other major powers do.
in writing. ‒ the delegation systematically votes for the 'european globalisation adjustment funds' because they are programmes to support employees of companies sometimes forced to lay off under the pressure of market deregulation, a consequence of the disastrous ultra-liberal policies applied within this european union incapable of defending neither the people who make it up nor the companies that make it live.
explanations of vote by oral procedure
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ giving half of humanity its rightful place in social and political representation is a universal struggle that socialists have always carried. i welcome the fact that, on the day after international women's day, our parliament is voting on a report which highlights the persistent discrimination in the field of equality and proposes concrete measures to reduce it. it is part of this collective will to work for the freedom and emancipation of women. there are many things to be done: increase the employment rate and its quality, reduce the pay and pension gap, reduce the risk of poverty, combat stereotypes, promote reconciliation between private and professional life, promote the participation of fathers and mothers in family life, unblock the directive on maternity leave, combat violence against women, promote sexual and reproductive rights, that is, the fundamental right of women to dispose of their bodies, which the reactionary conservatives are constantly trying to challenge. equality is a daily struggle that must be fought relentlessly. advancing women's rights is about wanting a more just society and a more effective democracy. the mentality still needs to improve!
in writing. ‒ the tarabella report misrepresents the initial objective of protecting women's rights for ideological and economic purposes, including the promotion of gender ideology. he denies the specificity of male and female and their complementarity. he denies the otherness of women and the fact that a child needs its mother first. creating non-transferable paternity leave will de facto take time away from maternity leave. its aim is to get more people into the labour market, weighing down wages. thus, it leads to the deterioration of women's lot by making men and women interchangeable, ignoring individuality and differences. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is in line with history. the text fully recognises the role of women in the european union and strongly condemns all discrimination against them.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on progress on equality between women and men in the union in 2013. the text thus emphasises that women have been the first victims of the crisis: almost one in four older women is at risk of poverty, a situation linked in particular to the persistent pay gap between men and women. the report also addresses violence against women and calls on the member states to strengthen their national action plans for the elimination of domestic violence: it is essential that women's rights are no longer treated as a marginal issue at european level.
in writing. ‒ once again, the ideology of 'gender' is being promoted with its cortege of ultra-minority communalist demands. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids, and calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids. i believe in meritocracy and i am firmly opposed to quotas and other so-called 'positive' discrimination. like the panzeri report, the tarabella report contravenes article 168 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that policies on so-called reproductive health are a matter for the member states. the european union therefore has no need to impose its views on countries which have sovereignly chosen other paths, a fortiori in an area which is the sole responsibility of the member states. i note in passing that the ump meps voted enthusiastically in favour of this report, as they did two days later for the panzeri report.
in writing. this report on progress on gender equality in the european union in 2013 calls on the member states and the european institutions to take into account the gender perspective and women's rights in budgetary procedures, to integrate gender equality into the europe 2020 strategy and to develop a gender-sensitive investment plan that is supposed to boost european gdp... of course, the recommendations in the report on combating poverty among women and reducing the gender pay gap are welcome and are naturally laudable objectives, but the ultra-liberal policies of the union and the big multinationals are in total contradiction to these objectives. furthermore, nothing is really being done to support mothers who wish to raise children and have or resume a job. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. article 19 of the feu treaty allows the european union to combat discrimination against women and men. last december, the european commission gave the co-legislators six months to act. the previous italian presidency had suggested a flexibility clause. last january, the committee on women's rights and gender equality adopted a report on the progress made in the union in 2013 on equality between women and men, which is now before us. i voted against this text, which was based on a principle which i support, namely equality between men and women. but mr tarabella could not help but give his report an ideological touch by mixing gender theory, paternity leave, abortion and even tax provisions. i regret the absence of any evidence of the major structural changes which threaten equality between men and women, in particular mass immigration from outside the community, whose populations do not share the same values, and some of which reduce women to the status of objects.
in writing. ‒ the tarabella report purports to be a true picture of gender inequalities. in the end, it leads to the promotion of gender theory and the denial of male/female complementarity. it should be noted that no mention is made of the right of women to security, which is rarely guaranteed in certain parts of european cities. nor is there any mention of the precarious situation of young single women with children who do not receive a "parental income". no, this report does not respond to the legitimate need for a state of affairs on the dignity of women in our societies, but to the ideology of ultra-feminist minority lobbies, which are trying to impose their 'moral order' on the european parliament. that is why i voted against the tarabella report.
in writing. ‒ equality between men and women is a fundamental principle. unfortunately, it is far from being fully respected in europe. the european union should be a normative example for the rest of the world. we see that there is still a lot of progress to be made in this area. we must continue to fight for women to be paid the same as men for similar work. we must also fight against sexism and violence against women. these are just a few examples. the position of women has changed in recent years. let's not stop on such a good path. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this very balanced report which develops concrete actions towards a healthy and indispensable adaptation to our current society. yes, the right to abortion must be considered a fundamental right. it is also important to take into account the need to adapt to new family structures. but more than that, it is time to give a boost to economic society by allowing women access to key positions in the corporate world and by eliminating the gender pay gap. mr tarabella's work has dealt with these questions, and we must now continue along this path.
in writing. ‒ the tarabella report is just another expression of the materialism, utilitarianism and egalitarianism that prevail in the european parliament. the report encourages women who have chosen to work part-time to do so full-time. the women who have chosen to focus on the future of their children are clearly not in line with mr tarabella's definition of female dignity. the report is a tribute to the culture of death by its explicit support for abortion, a weapon of mass destruction against the european population. her vision of women is a far cry from what the european woman has been throughout history: a strong woman who is one of the keys to the rapid progress of our civilization. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis, but that it is not disrupted by the economic crisis. because it is in fact a denial of the true dignity of women, i voted against this text.
in writing. the marc tarabella report is a report that looks back at the progress made on equality between women and men in the union in 2013. i voted in favour of this text which calls on the european union to take an active part in the fight against violence against women, domestic violence and forced marriages, which i have been fighting for many years now. the text also calls for the promotion of genuine equality between men and women in the workplace, by promoting women's participation in economic and political decision-making processes and by combating pay disparities.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to assess the progress made in the union in 2013 on gender equality. the report calls on the european institutions and the member states to integrate this issue more strongly in the formulation of their internal and external policies. the text also addresses the issue of equality between women and men in employment and decision-making, areas where progress still needs to be made in terms of equal pay and also to better overcome the difficulties of reconciling work and private life. the report also calls for the adoption of a new directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens. the issues of combating violence against women and gender stereotypes are also discussed. finally, among a number of identified societal challenges, issues of sexual and reproductive rights and same-sex marriage are addressed. these are purely national matters and the european union does not have to take legislative initiatives on these matters, which is why i voted against the related paragraphs.
in writing. ‒ despite real progress, inequalities between men and women are still glaring in european countries. this is despite the fact that women make up more than half the population and are now more likely than men to pursue higher education. the european union rightly defends women's rights in its external action. but it must also continue to work tirelessly within its own borders. violence against women is intolerable and must be vigorously combated. women should have the choice to lead the private and family life they desire, without any consequences for their professional future. genuine equality between men and women in the political and professional spheres is a fundamental right.
in writing. ‒ there is still a lot to be done to achieve genuine equality between men and women in our society and that is why i voted in favour of the report on progress on equality between women and men in the union in 2013. the report is balanced, it gives a clear and realistic assessment of the situation, it makes pragmatic proposals and it recalls the struggles we still have to fight: reducing the wage and pension gaps, improving education and training for better access to employment, and strengthening the fight against violence against women and stereotypes. this report also refers to women's control over their sexual and reproductive health and rights, which is a matter for the member states, and that is why i voted in favour of an approach which respects the division of powers between the member states and the european union but also defends the principles developed in france by the veil law.
in writing. ‒ on 10 march 2015, the european parliament adopted a report on the progress made in 2013 on equality between women and men in the european union. i voted in favour of this report which recognises sexual and reproductive rights as fundamental rights. for european women to have control over their own health and sexual and reproductive rights, it is essential to increase access for both women and men to services such as contraception, abortion, family planning, prenatal and postnatal care, treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, etc. similarly, access to education, prevention and information on these same issues for adolescents and adults is also necessary to ensure better use of services related to sexual and reproductive health and rights. the report also identifies the remaining obstacles to gender equality in the union and lists areas where the union and the member states need to continue to take active action.
in writing. ‒ the tarabella report is a compilation of proposals from outside the field. it was all based on a common sense principle, typical of western philosophy and of our christian roots, namely, the equality of men and women. this text mixes gender theory and its cortege of intellectual errors with paternity leave, abortion and tax reform, while describing a grossly false view of the family, proving that certain political forces in the european parliament want to destroy it. and it is women and children who will suffer most from the attacks on the family, the basic unit of european societies, which some see as backward or oppressive to women. on the other hand, there is no mention of the structural changes under way which threaten equality between women and men in europe today, starting with cultural practices alien to our civilization and nurtured by communitarianism and multiculturalism. i therefore voted against this report, which is more concerned with ideology than with defending women in europe.
in writing. ‒ in the previous parliamentary term, the estrela report had to be examined by parliament and was rejected. but once again, the european union is applying its customary case law, which could be translated as follows: 'when the people or their representatives vote wrong, a new vote should be taken'. so we have today the tarabella report. at the same time, an exhibition of the courageous foundation jérôme lejeune, which helps children with down syndrome (trisomy 21), is being held in these buildings. many in this house who want to support the disabled would prefer not to see them voting on this sad report.
in writing. - i voted against the tarabella report. as usual when parliament deals with these issues, it seems that it is not so much about equality between women and men - equal rights, equal treatment - as about the negation of their obvious and welcome differences. no, mr. tarabella, men and women are not totally replaceable, interchangeable entities. no, their differences are not the result of the perpetuation of "gender stereotypes" since the stone age. they are objective, natural, normal causes. it is true that, at equal work and skill level, women should receive the same pay as men. it is true that young women who are interested in such careers should be able to enter the professions that are considered to be more masculine. and those who are eager to get into political office. my party has no lessons to learn on this point. but it is also clear that the first service to be rendered to women is to recognize their uniqueness, to listen to them and to take their aspirations into account. and in particular, to give financial autonomy to those who prefer to devote themselves to their families rather than becoming the "european homo" you dream of: gray, asexual, a-cultured, economic agent before being a human being.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it is true that, as some have said, and especially as a pretext, the european union has no direct competence in matters of social policy, but the union does have a real competence for the promotion and defence of equality between women and men and for combating all forms of discrimination based on sex. with just a few days to go until international women's day, it was important to support this well-balanced and rather symbolic report, which stresses the way forward for gender equality, highlights the remaining obstacles and, above all, proposes several ways to reduce these inequalities. in particular, i strongly support the report's provisions on violence against women and calling for a european year to combat violence against women in 2016, when the statistics on this are alarming!
in writing. ‒ i voted last tuesday in favour of a report to promote equality between men and women in the european union. this text sets out a clear statement and, on the basis of it, makes strong and pragmatic proposals to make positive progress on women's rights in europe. it is time to reduce the gender pay and pension gap, improve education and training for better access to employment, break down stereotypes and strengthen our fight against violence against women. with my colleagues from the french delegation of the ump group of the epp, we also wanted to reiterate our attachment to the control exercised by women over their sexual and reproductive health and rights in accordance with the principles developed in france by the veil law. however, we are aware that the fight for equality between men and women must be carried out in compliance with the distribution of competences between the states and the european union. the principle of subsidiarity is a fundamental principle from which no exceptions can be made.
in writing. ‒ like most of my colleagues, i supported marc tarabella's report on equality between women and men in the european union. despite some progress, much remains to be done to reduce inequality. this report addresses the main policy challenges: wage and pension gaps, women's position in political and economic decision-making, the consequences of the economic crisis, work-life balance, childcare systems, maternity and paternity leave, sexual and reproductive rights, including contraception and abortion, and the fight against violence against women. parliament called on the member states to ensure the implementation of the directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment in employment and occupation, to unblock legislation on women on boards, to promote education policies encouraging women to pursue careers in science, technology and ict, to address the problem of women working in part-time, low-paid and precarious jobs and to provide quality childcare facilities for children and other dependants.
in writing. ‒ i would like to refute this report, which was voted on by the plenary on tuesday 10 march. my vote on the right to abortion and my final vote on the report were technical errors which i corrected immediately in the minutes. i do not agree with all the statements in this report, but i would like to reiterate that i am as committed to equality between women and men as i am to the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy. however, i also consider abortion to be a highly sensitive subject which is far from being an unimportant issue for women. i therefore understand that such a decision, which is a matter for the conscience of each individual, does not have a consensus in the european parliament. i believe that such a question, which is also linked to the family, cultural and religious traditions of each people, should not be raised in the european parliament, where inevitably, whenever there is a diversity of cultures, beliefs and ideologies, confrontation and misunderstanding arise but never the solution.
in writing. ‒ this report misuses the desire to protect women's rights to serve ideological and economic causes, by promoting gender ideology that denies the specificities of the two sexes, and the complementarity that results from this. it simply denies the need for each child to be with his mother since paternity leave will de facto take away time from maternity leave. the aim is therefore to increase the number of people in the labour market so that wages can be reduced. this leads to a deterioration in the position of women, since men and women are interchangeable. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on progress on equality between women and men in the union in 2013. i believe that this report addresses in a balanced way the key issues of combating violence against women, economic independence and equal pay. equality between women and men is a constant struggle. i therefore welcome the adoption of the report which stresses the need for action in many areas and proposes several lines of action for the future.
in writing. ‒ gender equality is essential to the smooth functioning of our societies and is at the heart of the epp group's priorities. the report contained essential elements for the pursuit of this objective, which i supported, such as the promotion of women's entrepreneurship, the defence of equal pay, the fight against stereotypes and against violence against women. unfortunately, the author of this report has chosen to include provisions which fall within the strict competence of the member states, such as the question of gender, or others which merely unnecessarily announce a pale copy of consolidated principles of french law. the texts voted by the european parliament must, in accordance with our electoral commitments, focus on the general european interest and stop trying to make rules in all areas, especially on social issues. for all these reasons, i have chosen to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on progress on gender equality in the european union. this report, which was entrusted to our belgian colleague marc tarabella, was supported by me and by almost the entire french delegation to the epp group. this support is in line with our wish to remain committed to advancing equality throughout the union, on several fronts, subject by subject: equal pay and pensions, access to education and to political and economic decision-making circles, the fight against all forms of violence against women and against trafficking in human beings. there is still a lot to be done, either there are regressions or progress is too slow and needs to be accelerated. the epp group also wanted to reiterate its commitment to respect for the principle of subsidiarity and the competences of the member states in matters of social law, family law and matrimonial law. the objective of equality between men and women is enshrined in the 1957 treaty of rome. this is a fundamental principle of the european union, and we must therefore work to achieve it.
in writing. ‒ this report takes stock of the efforts still needed to improve the position of women in our societies. it supports all policies that could promote this equality: legislation on boards of directors, the unblocking of the maternity leave directive, the creation of paternity leave to share the burden with one's spouse and all policies, including education policies, that broaden the range of available careers. it is also concerned about the economic situation of women, who often occupy precarious jobs and are the first victims, along with young people, of economic crises. it is also a report which systematically defends the right to contraception and abortion, which is frequently questioned and still banned in some countries. it is therefore important to stand up for women's rights, which i did by supporting this report.
in writing. ‒ the tarabella report is characterised by a disguised and declining ultra-liberalism at the heart of society, in the family, by making equal treatment between women and men the vehicle of an ideology that seeks to atomize society and isolate individuals. the report suggests that european societies and their traditions are archaic, dangerous and harmful to women and their freedom, whereas the family is the only solid protection for women. the rapporteur uses as a weapon a jumble of concepts and proposals which have nothing to do with equality between women and men, such as taxation, abortion or gender theory. the report also proposes measures to reform the labour market and public policies, and the european union is leading the way, thus justifying the illegitimate supranational instruments that are encroaching on the freedoms of the states. equality between women and men cannot be the subject of heavy european regulations inspired by political ideologies. the amendments to reassert the exclusive competence of the member states were rejected by a majority of members of parliament, which is another reason why i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against this because it attempts to promote the gender theory that i am opposed to. in addition, it seeks to impose equality in all areas, for example by encouraging the inclusion of 'gender equality clauses in public procurement tenders'. i prefer republican equality, which distinguishes individuals only according to their virtues and talents, to parity which confines them to sex categories.
in writing. - i vote against it. it is a primarily ideological relationship which tends to question physical reality, the difference between men and women and their complementarity. no decision in favour of maternity is taken. it is the affirmation of her body's disposition that is hammered, an idea behind which we find the defense of abortion. by insisting on the return to the labour market and the free disposal of one's body, the report adopts, contrary to the stated aim, a position of commodification of the body which must remain "available". there is no desire to offer women a real choice of life between a professional career, a choice which is forbidden or even imposed by this text, and a life partly devoted to the education of children through the introduction of a real parental income. this choice imposed by the european parliament can only have a negative impact on the demographics of the european population.
in writing. - i voted against this text without hesitation. this report goes against human dignity and the right of women to choose: it envisages imposing fulltime work on women who have chosen not to work or to work part-time, it suggests the use of quotas as if this were the only way for women to be employed and it is in favour of abortion, which can only affect the european demography negatively.
in writing. ‒ every year, the european commission issues a report to assess progress made towards equality between women and men. this year's report provides a well-researched analysis of the changing situation in europe, and highlights the slow progress made in recent years. he is in favour of equal pay for men and women. the report calls for women to have control over their sexual and reproductive health and rights, including through "easy access to contraception and abortion". the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. i am voting in favour of this report to support the progressive approach in the face of reactionary forces.
in writing. the tarabella report on progress on gender equality in 2013 proposes to include the gender equality target in the europe 2020 employment framework, in the context of the recovery policies and to develop a gender-differentiated social infrastructure investment plan to increase gdp. the objective of equality between men and women is commendable, but it must not be achieved without respect for the principle of subsidiarity. this report constitutes an interference in matters falling within the exclusive competence of the member states and is in contradiction with the european parliament's resolution of 10 december 2013 on sexual and reproductive health and rights. the other objectives, such as those concerning women's poverty due to single parenthood or retirement, and the wage inequality in equivalent positions, are meritorious, but the union and the member states have legally organized their impotence in the face of large multinational groups and cannot therefore exert any pressure. no support is provided for mothers who have chosen to raise their children while working or planning to work. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on progress on equality between women and men in the union in 2013. the text recalls that there is still a long way to go to reduce the wage and pension gaps, to overcome the 'glass ceilings' and to strengthen the fight against violence against women. the report stresses the right of women to control their health, sexual and reproductive rights, including access to contraception and abortion. i supported amendments which stress that the fight for equality between men and women at european level must be conducted with respect for the competences of the member states under the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the tarabella report because this annual own-initiative report on progress on equality between women and men in the european union is this time rather balanced and well structured, the ideological considerations of the previous reports having finally been erased. it takes up crucial points, such as violence against women, the gender pay gap and the glass ceiling in terms of careers, which we must fight against. as regards the issues of women's sexual and reproductive health and abortion, these are matters which, under the principle of subsidiarity, are the responsibility of the states and not of europe. i am for the application of the veil law in france. equality between women and men is a constant battle. it would take another 70 years to see the goals of equality come to fruition, and we cannot afford that.
in writing. ‒ the votes on this report included the issue of abortion, with the words: 'insists that women should have control over their sexual and reproductive health and rights, in particular through easy access to contraception and abortion'. i voted for amendment no 11 which dealt with this passage and which states that 'reproductive health and rights are a matter for the member states'. i have made it clear that i am in favour of the issue of abortion remaining a national issue and that the european union, which has no competence in this area, should not interfere.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of this text. much remains to be done to reduce inequalities between men and women. it would take until 2034 to achieve equal pay and 2038 to have a female employment rate comparable to that of men. so it is high time to go beyond the fine words. gender equality must be an integral part of all union policies. this report confirms this.
in writing. ‒ today, inequalities between women and men have been considerably reduced in europe. significant progress has been made, but much remains to be done. the issues of wage and pension gaps and inequalities in access to education are major obstacles to achieving genuine equality between women and men. i'm determined to keep this fight going. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. it demonstrates that at european level the union has committed itself to member states to reduce these inequalities. i would like to stress that i am particularly attached to the french values set out in the veil law: women must retain control over their health and sexual and reproductive rights. i'm not going to compromise on that one. in my vote, however, i wanted to stress that the commission must respect the principle of subsidiarity: these matters must remain the domain of the member states. europe cannot and must not take care of everything. it is the wise balance we have found to make europe as efficient as possible.
in writing. ‒ one year after the rejection of the estrela report on equality between men and women by the conservative and traditionalist right, the european parliament has this time voted overwhelmingly in favour of the report by my belgian socialist colleague marc tarabella, which takes stock of the remaining gender inequalities in europe and also lists many proposals to improve the situation. sexual and reproductive rights, violence against women, inequalities in working conditions (wages, flexibility suffered, etc.), political representation are all essential topics that this report tackles head-on. at a time when the council is still refusing to move forward on european maternity leave, or on the inclusion of at least 40% women on boards of directors, to name just two examples, the adoption of this report is a very positive signal which i welcome. the council must hear the voice of the elected representatives of the european citizens and finally deal with the issues of equality between men and women with all the importance they deserve. it is not just our principles that are at stake, but the cohesion of our societies!
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2013. this text shows the european parliament's determination to continue its efforts to achieve genuine equality between men and women, as there is still a long way to go. these include working to reduce wage and pension gaps, improving education and training for better access to employment, strengthening our fight against violence against women and stereotypes, and breaking down the 'glass ceilings' on career development. finally, i and the french epp delegation have reiterated our support for the principles-based approach developed in france by the simone veil law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the progress made in the union in 2013 on gender equality. far from being caricatures, the report reflects most of our priorities: reducing the wage and pension gaps - 22% of older women are at risk of poverty, compared with 16.3% of men - promoting education and training, combating violence against women and stereotypes. however, i would like to point out that the promotion of equality between men and women must be done in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity and the competence of the member states in this area. the european union does not have legislative power on certain aspects of sexual and reproductive rights and must leave these matters to the sovereignty of the member states and their national assemblies.
in writing. ‒ while this report deals with important subjects which are not debated, such as equality between men and women, some of these amendments seek to call into question the complementarity between men and women in an ideological way and, above all, promote an ideological vision contrary to natural law and the principle of subsidiarity. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the tarabella report aims to assess the state of play of gender inequalities. the report deliberately moves away from the search for equal rights towards the obligation of male/female substitutability, denying the natural differences and complementarities between them. this relationship is a new denial of physical and natural reality, the one that makes a woman different from a man and that she does not have the same aspirations. the report stresses the "right to abortion" and the free disposal of women's bodies. there are two things to be said on this subject: first, why is there no mention of the right to "reproduction"? in the name of women's liberation, we have sacrificed the lives of millions of unborn children and thus a whole generation of europeans. reproduction is only discussed to find ways to prevent it. oddly consistent. secondly, the real objective of promoting this text is also to maintain a massive human capital in the labour market, which is further weighing down wages. i vote against this text with the entire fn delegation.
in writing. ‒ this report is the european parliament's annual report on women's rights for 2013. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, and for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. it therefore reverted to its traditional positions on women's rights to control their own bodies in matters of contraception and abortion. if we have to point out the great hypocrisy of the votes on the right of the house, the fn is clear, it is against women's rights and especially the right to abortion. i therefore voted in favour of this report, but i will remain vigilant. it is time that equal rights between women and men were finally a reality. but it is clear that, particularly in social matters, women's rights are declining, since they are the first victims of austerity policies.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the annual report on eu competition policy fails to conclude that the objectives of pure and perfect competition in the single market have not been achieved in the goods and services sector. the abuses of dominant positions and cartels, against which the text suggests some laudable measures, are evidence of a risk of abuse of market power in certain sectors characterized by the presence of oligopolies. this report clearly calls for further projects to open up the network and energy industries to competition, in line with the objectives of the juncker plan. i voted against this text, refusing to approve a failed single market project and plans for large-scale liberalization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it advocates many measures that would help to solve the problems that are hindering the internal market. i support the conclusions of this report which call on the commission to implement rules on infringements of competition law, state aid and merger control in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to enable social progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted against mr messerschmidt's report because it refuses to recognise the bitter failure of european competition policy, which has only increased the constraints on smes without preventing the dominance of a few monopolistic players. worse still, this policy makes most of the targeted state aid illegal and therefore does not allow for a strategic state policy, which is more necessary than ever. i also believe that taxation cannot be a matter for the union, contrary to what is stated four times in this report.
in writing. this annual report on competition policy highlights the key role it plays in strengthening the european single market and thus increasing federalism and the race to the top. the european union, under the guise of promoting growth, innovation and social progress, is thus seeking to further regulate the granting of state aid, to further harmonise tax rules and to complete the digital single market. the report also seeks to identify imbalances which are likely to create distortions of competition, but never mentions the so-called posted workers directive which creates unfair competition vis-à-vis our companies and smes or the union's refusal to introduce intelligent protectionism at the frontiers. the report also stresses the need to 'effectively respect the needs of citizens ... by placing their concerns at the centre of the decision-making process', something we could welcome if this technocratic and sprawling union did not do the exact opposite of what it advocates. the union in its present form is a machine for crushing peoples on the altar of ultra-liberalism and free and undistorted competition; i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the union's competition policy is one of the pillars of the policies pursued by the european commission. however, far from supporting the emergence of a free market that would promote 'pure and perfect competition', the union's competition policy has in fact increased the regulatory pressure on smes/tses and local public services. it also supported the replacement of public monopolies by private monopolies run by rapacious multinationals. the commission has, through its state aid legislation, blocked any attempt by states to implement a policy of economic patriotism towards these strategic sectors. finally, the report advocates giving the union fiscal competence, which is tantamount to endorsing a further leap forward in euro-federalism. for all these reasons, i voted against the messerschmidt report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on european competition policy for 2013. i am all for competition, provided it is fair. competition is a driver of economic growth and job creation, but it must be done in an environment where all actors have the same chances of success. i have reaffirmed my position in this report in favour of fiscal and social convergence within the european union. we must fight against social dumping which only widen the disparities between our countries. if we are to open our borders and promote the mobility of workers, it is essential that we bring our social policies closer together. the same applies to the convergence of tax policies in the member states. it is time to act and to harmonize our tax policies in order to avoid these problems. i would like to reiterate my intention to fight for this cause as an alternate member of the special committee on taxe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which once again shows that within the european union, dogmatism is stronger than reality. competition policy is one of the european union's greatest failures: were we promised the end of monopolies? they have been replaced by oligopolies which are twice as dangerous for smes: just look at the union's incompetence in the face of google. we were assured of equal competition for access to public contracts? however, the regulations continue to favour the large groups. this policy is equally disastrous for the protection of our strategic sectors. what is the solution of the commission and its accomplices in parliament to this? more european integration, more of the single market! the commission is calling for a new wave of liberalisation in the gas and electricity sectors and is seeking to bring tax competition under european regulation. the margin of manoeuvre for the states is therefore being reduced a little more and, in the name of the ideology of the removal of frontiers, the peoples of europe are being promised an ever more austere future.
in writing. ‒ this report is based on the 2013 annual report on the european union's competition policy, which was established by the european commission to combat cartels and anti-competitive practices. the report notes in particular the modernisation work carried out in state aid in many areas, such as the environment, energy, regional funds and research and innovation. in the agricultural sector, the report calls on the commission, in particular, to examine the potential effect of large supermarkets on competition in the food supply sector, both in europe and in the developing world, when it is next to review the reform of the cap. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european union's competition policy is at the heart of the european construction. it helps to boost the competitiveness of firms, to promote the single market and to ensure that consumers benefit from the fairest prices. this is why this european parliament report calls on the european commission to consider new tools to strengthen the fight against fraud in this area, beyond a simple policy of fines, which may not be deterrent. it is worth recalling that cartels between large groups cause losses of between eur 181 and 320 billion, or about 3% of eu gdp, to the detriment of consumers' purchasing power. the report also deplores the fact that after four years of investigation, the commission has no further results in its infringement case against google. the report thus reaffirms the vigilance of the european parliament in defending consumers, the driving force behind european growth.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the union's competition policy presented to parliament fails to conclude that the objectives of pure and perfect competition in the single market have not been achieved in the goods and services sector. the abuses of dominant positions and cartels, against which the text suggests some laudable measures, are evidence of a risk of market power in certain sectors characterized by the presence of oligopolies. the text also clearly calls for the continuation of projects to open up the network and energy industries to competition, in line with the objectives of the juncker plan. i voted against this text, refusing to approve a failed single market project and plans for large-scale liberalization.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the messerschmidt report on competition policy, despite some positive points, for example on unfair tax competition or support for banks without profit for the real economy. on the substance, i cannot agree with the rapporteur that 'the open market economy with free competition is enshrined in the treaties' (paragraph 1). it is a denial of the right of the peoples to choose the rules which govern them, since a model is imposed on them which is engraved in the marble of europe. it is also because this policy, applied in a strictly dogmatic way, has largely failed its objectives: the disappearance of entire sectors of our industry; the undermining of public services; the increase in prices and the reduction in the quality of services in many "liberalized" sectors - electricity, rail, postal services, etc.; the exclusion of smes from public contracts with collateral damage to local employment and the increasing use of posted workers; replacement of public monopolies by private oligopolies uncontrolled by the political authorities; the european union has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the balance is far from positive. this is not due to the inadequacies of competition policy, but to its abuses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the state of play of competition policy and the application of state aid within the european union. i am glad that the text adopted this year highlights the google case, against which the european union must urgently take action, and the need to deal with social dumping and the misuse of the structural funds in the context of competition policy. the tax aspects are also essential and unfair practices in this area must be combated in order to ensure fair and balanced competition between member states.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the unmet objectives of fair competition in the single market, particularly in the area of goods and services. it also highlights the abuse of dominant positions and cartels, against which the report proposes measures which are laudable, although feared. the risk of oligopoly formation in certain sectors is particularly high and the legislator will have to be attentive to this. finally, the commission proposes to open up the network and energy industries to competition, thus recalling the objectives of the juncker plan. i therefore refuse to support a text which advocates a single market project and liberalisation throughout europe, in all sectors. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague morten messerschmidt on the annual report on the eu's competition policy, presenting the european commission's legislative activities under the state aid, cartel and merger/acquisition rules. the text calls on the commission to revise its 2006 antitrust/cartel fines guidelines. the lack of concrete results in the google survey is also regrettable. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i supported the annual report on eu competition policy. competition policy plays a key role in creating conditions for innovation, productivity, job creation and growth in europe. the report calls on the commission to implement a number of measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, including the implementation of rules on infringements of competition law, state aid and merger control. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some interesting elements, such as google's abuse of a dominant position and the demand for stronger investigations into tax aid. but as a whole, this report takes up the whole of the european doctrine on the primacy of the construction of the single market and the virtues of competition. it is this approach that is forcing all public monopolies and undoing our public services one by one. i therefore preferred to vote against this report rather than to join in this advocacy of the destructive logic of quality public services for the citizens.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the union's competition policy presented to parliament fails to conclude that the objectives of pure and perfect competition in the single market have not been achieved in the goods and services sector. the abuses of dominant positions and cartels, against which the text suggests some laudable measures, are evidence of a risk of market power in certain sectors characterized by the presence of oligopolies. the text also clearly calls for the continuation of projects to open up the network and energy industries to competition, in line with the objectives of the juncker plan. i voted against this text, refusing to approve a failed single market project and plans for large-scale liberalization.
in writing. - vote against. competition policy is one of the tenets of the european union, which requires that markets be opened up more by eliminating all obstacles to competition. the report considers that "competition prevents excessive concentration of economic and financial power in the hands of a few players, which in itself represents a risk to the independence of european political power vis-à-vis the large industrial and banking groups". this policy has therefore failed, as certain sectors have seen the emergence of oligopolies (banking, retail). the big brands, often condemned for collusion, put a lot of pressure on suppliers through joint purchasing centres. smes remain the losers, disadvantaged by regulations that favour large groups, depriving them of public contracts. the state can no longer protect its strategic sectors and the european competition policy pursues the objective of eliminating the last barriers to the single market. the commission's position is therefore not effective in relation to the main monopolies, and the commission's position is incompatible with a policy of state strategy and the consequences for smes.
in writing. ‒ vote against this report which goes against the interests of the member states and their smes by increasing the pressure on smes without preventing the dominance of a few players such as the major economic powers. the report also makes most targeted state aid illegal and lacks concrete references to the social consequences of certain policies.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the eu's competition policy is based on the ideological premise that only unlimited and barrier-free competition will enable europe to emerge from the crisis and return to growth. it even says that "competition policy is itself a safeguard for european democracy". the usual catechism is then recited, for example, the "third set of measures for the liberalization of gas and electricity" should be implemented "without delay". or "continue to move towards the completion of the single transport market". unlimited competition is disastrous for the peoples of europe. if the medicine kills the patient, it is not because the dose is insufficient but because it is bad. the dose should therefore not be increased but changed. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the european union's competition policy has always considered the free play of market rules and pure and perfect competition as the guarantors of growth and employment. it has failed in this respect on a rather broad scale. monopolies have been replaced by equally predatory oligopolies. smes are too often denied access to large public procurement contracts. the privatisation of former public utilities such as energy, transport and telecommunications has mainly maximised the profits of a few players. the banking sector is getting a lot of aid, but it is not helping the real economy. finally, the commission's control of state aid prohibits any policy of support for strategic or distressed economic sectors by the states, i.e. any sovereign economic policy. a too dogmatic competition policy is therefore counterproductive, while the freedom to undertake business is often hampered by the burden of administrative and fiscal constraints.
in writing. this annual report on the eu's competition policy praises the effect of the single market and competition policy on member states' economies. it recommends further reducing the scope of services of general economic interest (sgeis) exempted from notification, such as social housing, and derogations from state aid for sustainable energy. in the name of the sacred principle of free and undistorted competition, it proposes to break down national borders and artificial barriers a little more, while at the same time being concerned about social dumping and eliminating monopolistic energy suppliers, even though the united states has backed down. it is in an anti-protectionist dogmatism in the name of globalised free trade which nevertheless leads to massive deindustrialisation. the report also states that competition policy is itself a means of safeguarding democracy, reflecting the liberal ideology behind it. the analysis of smes is incomplete: it is mainly the economic depression caused by austerity that is contracting credit. finally, there is no provision for the requirement of reciprocity in public procurement... i therefore opposed the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the commission's annual report on its activities to enforce the provisions of the european competition policy. the text calls for a better fight against social dumping and the misuse of the structural funds by certain member states. the text also recalls the need to guarantee an open internet and to enshrine net neutrality in european law.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it supports the liberalisation of the european railway sector at all costs. in the previous parliament i opposed the limited liberalisation that the european conservatives wanted and i still support the same position today. liberalisation is not a sign of progress for rail transport.
in writing. ‒ european competition policy is now at the heart of the new juncker commission's strategy to increase competitiveness and stimulate economic growth within the union. however, this policy cannot be effective without strict compliance with the rules at european level. we emphasized these elements when we voted yesterday on the annual report on the union's competition policy. i am pleased to have voted in favour. the text stresses the importance of effective and innovative policy and the need to combat dubious practices. i would particularly like to see us combating social dumping and the fiscal war between european partners. everyone has to play by the same rules. these are real problems for our social and fiscal model.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today on the annual report on the european union's competition policy, presented by a conservative mep, mr messerschmidt. in this text, the rapporteur sets out the classic right-wing view of the primacy of competition over the general interest, the superiority of competitiveness over the quality of public services. the transport sector, for example, calls into question the state's management of certain key sectors, whereas experience shows that where transport is not profitable, public power is needed to ensure the continuity of the public service. once again, the conservative right is seeking to weaken social cohesion to prepare the ground for deregulated liberalism. if sometimes compromises with the european right are useful in advancing our proposals, then futile compromises only serve to dilute our message and our political positions, as would have been the case with this text. in line with the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, i have therefore decided to reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the european union's competition policy and gives its opinion on the commission's annual report. i supported this text which again calls for an end to the state aid scheme for the banking sector and stresses the lack of effect on bank loans, asks the commission to review its 2006 guidelines on antitrust fines and finally calls on the commission to combat the problems of social dumping, on which we will remain uncompromising.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes stock of competition policy in the union, particularly in the energy, transport, public services and digital sectors. the report regrets in particular that the proceedings against google have still not achieved a tangible result in its case of infringement of competition law, namely the preferential treatment granted by google to its own services in the display of search query results. i am also glad that parliament rightly points out that worrying practices such as social dumping or the misuse of the structural funds distort competition in the union.
in writing. ‒ the european union's competition policy is the source of two injustices. it is a failure in the face of large groups like google and it is incompatible with a state strategy promoting strategic sectors that support smes and supporting them in return. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ european competition policy has failed to achieve its objectives by increasing pressure on smes without preventing the dominance of a few players. it therefore makes most of the targeted state aid illegal. i therefore voted against, along with the whole french delegation.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on competition policy is in line with the reports adopted in recent years by the previous reports. as always, he is advocating greater openness to competition, calling into question state aid and calling for more liberalization, with the key element being the systematic dismantling of what remains of our public services. the aim is to improve the quality of transport services, particularly rail services, and to manage port and airport networks. we would have known. the demand for "universal and high-quality public services" put forward by the gue/ngl was of course rejected in favour of a logic of maximising the privatisation of profits and socialising losses. competition is, by the very nature of the report, placed on a pedestal, described as 'a safeguard of european democracy'. you have to say it and the greeks among others will appreciate it. not surprisingly, i voted against it.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ this annual report does not seek to redefine the role of the central bank, since it cannot criticise the legitimacy and effectiveness of its action. the ecb's reaction times to deflationary risk are not justifiable and the report does not describe any of the reasons for this. the reform of banking regulation in the euro area is also not in depth, while european banks, having put national economies at risk through their activities, their irresponsibility in managing private funds and the risks taken in risky market operations without sound equity levels, are still not sufficiently involved in the refinancing of the real economy. finally, the ecb's action is still disconnected from national economic realities and supranational monetary policy does not respond to the needs of the economy and the imperatives of reducing public debt. i voted against this report, which shows the difficulties the ecb is having in reforming itself and justifying the relevance of its strategies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation because i agree with the conclusions of this report.
in writing. ‒ the very existence of the ecb is contrary to the principle of monetary sovereignty to which i am committed. the 2013 balance sheet is only a reflection of the policy of confiscation of our monetary independence.
in writing. this ecb report, which is surprised at the lack of progress in the euro area economy, aims to save the euro at any cost, even at the expense of the member states. unfortunately, the rescue of the single currency has consequences for the budgetary policies of the member states, since it contributes to a cure of austerity and a risk of deflation by contracting domestic demand. the european union must understand that the euro is a currency that is not suited to such different economies and can only lead people to ever greater austerity and precariousness. it is becoming more than urgent for nations to get their national currencies back in order to revive growth. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against the 2013 annual report of the european central bank. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the 2013 annual report of the european central bank is a reflection of the policy of confiscation of our independence.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank report reflects the european union's inability to propose a lasting way out of the crisis. the ecb has drawn on its last resources by deciding to lower its key interest rates to boost borrowing by households and businesses and to restore export competitiveness to our companies. given the very limited effects of this policy, criticism of the single currency euro has been reinforced. yes, the eurozone is a zone of macroeconomic divergence on the brink of deflation. the european council in luxembourg on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the community and the european parliament's opinion on the situation in the community. finally, in challenging the role played by the ecb, i naturally voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank is a key institution in the european economic and financial system. the ecb's role is to ensure price stability and thus to maintain inflation rates close to but below 2%. in a context of very low economic growth, this is proving to be an extremely difficult task. the ecb has nevertheless succeeded in using innovative and unconventional practices to stabilise inflation within the european union. i welcome these efforts and encourage the ecb to continue to do so. a good monetary policy such as that of the ecb is indeed necessary but it will not be sufficient to bring our economies back on track. each member state must be aware that appropriate structural reforms are more than indispensable and that monetary policy alone will not be able to improve the economic situation within the union. i also welcome the new role of the ecb as a banking supervisor. i believe that this decision will increase investor confidence in the european banking sector. this measure is in line with the investment plan of the european commission under jean-claude juncker. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i cannot endorse the results of an institution whose legitimacy i also question. the very existence of the european central bank is an attack on the principle of monetary sovereignty. beyond that, the ecb's 2013 balance sheet reflects the policy of confiscating our independence: the direction of our monetary policy is thus decided by a wholly illegitimate board of governors, whose president, mario draghi, does not hesitate to state at the beginning of this annual report: "the achievement by governments of new decisive steps towards the establishment of a banking union will allow us to restore confidence in the financial system and to ensure that the euro is not a mere instrument of the european union's monetary policy". the ecb, like the other eu institutions, is therefore blinded by the ideology of a united states of europe, even as the euro crisis has demonstrated the failure of monetary convergence to achieve a single currency. the report is guided by the dogmatism which every patriotic member of parliament had to oppose. i dare you.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at the european central bank's (ecb) annual report for 2013 and welcomes the ecb's determination to be pragmatic in its efforts to save the euro and its responsiveness in a particularly difficult context. it is worrying to note that economic activity in the euro area remains relatively sluggish and that there is a real risk of deflation in the euro area. this situation, together with high unemployment rates in many euro area member states, threatens the stability of the euro area. this confirms the current policy orientation of the european commission, which i support, namely the creation of the conditions for a revival of investment, both public and private, through structural reforms in the member states and the implementation of the so-called juncker plan. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the report on the european central bank's activity in 2013 focuses on monetary policy on the one hand and financial stability on the other. in a difficult economic environment of sluggish growth, persistently high unemployment and the risk of deflation, the report considers it crucial to create the conditions for a revival of both public and private investment in the euro area and welcomes the introduction of the new instruments - the single supervisory and resolution mechanisms - to ensure greater financial stability.
in writing. ‒ the annual report presented to the european parliament does not seek to redefine the role of the central bank, since it cannot criticise the legitimacy and effectiveness of its action. the ecb's reaction times to deflationary risk are not justifiable and the report does not describe any of the reasons for this. the reform of banking regulation in the euro area is also not in depth, while european banks, having put national economies at risk through their activities, their irresponsibility in managing private funds and the risks taken in risky market operations without sound equity levels, are still not sufficiently involved in the refinancing of the real economy. finally, the ecb's action is still disconnected from national economic realities and supranational monetary policy does not respond to the needs of the economy and the imperatives of reducing public debt. i voted against this report, which shows the difficulties the ecb is having in reforming itself and justifying the relevance of its strategies.
in writing. ‒ the continuous decline in the european central bank's key interest rates since 2013, which continued in 2014, is unprecedented. the refinancing rate of private banks has never been lower in europe, much lower than in the united states. despite all these facilities, private banks have not played their part: no increase in loans to households and businesses. the interest rates on these loans remain high compared with other economic indicators. another inconsistency of the ecb is that the intermediation between the ecb and the member states, entrusted to private banks, is borne by the states and therefore by the taxpayers. the report that has been presented overlooks a problem too important to remain silent: the european union's inability to implement a recovery policy. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the bank. the euro rescue was really a bank rescue. by refusing to impose a voluntary and consistent policy of credit and interest rates on these banks, the ecb has deliberately prolonged the economic crisis in the euro area. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it underlines the crucial role of the european central bank and its impact on the real economy in times of crisis. it stressed the need to ensure a good balance between the use of monetary, fiscal and structural levers in order to return to the path of growth. the ecb has no magic bullet to offer until the member states, including france, have carried out the necessary structural reforms to make their economies more competitive.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, refusing to support the monetary policy of the central bank, since it does not criticize its legitimacy or effectiveness. the lack of reaction to the deflationary risk is not explained, nor is the reform of banking regulation thorough. the irresponsible behaviour of some european banks, particularly in the management of funds in risky investments, without relying on solid and real funds, is also not highlighted. banks are not required to make a concrete commitment to the real economy. i voted against this text because the ecb is incapable of reforming itself and of defining coherent strategies. the latter is still disconnected from national economic realities and supranational monetary policies and therefore fails to meet the requirements for reducing public debt.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague pablo zalba bidegain's report on the ecb's annual report 2013, which calls on member states to push forward labour market reforms to improve competitiveness, increase potential growth, create new job opportunities, increase flexibility and optimise the conditions for firms to create jobs. in addition, the report notes that the trend towards shorter working hours appears to have reversed by the end of 2013, indicating a possible gradual improvement in the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by 461 votes.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the 2013 annual report of the european central bank (ecb). among its recommendations, the report encourages the ecb to maintain favourable conditions for investment and economic activity and to combat deflationary risks in the euro area countries. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. ‒ the annual report presented to the european parliament does not seek to redefine the role of the central bank, since it cannot criticise the legitimacy and effectiveness of its action. the ecb's reaction times to deflationary risk are not justifiable and the report does not describe any of the reasons for this. the reform of banking regulation in the euro area is also not in depth, while european banks, having put national economies at risk through their activities, their irresponsibility in managing private funds and the risks taken in risky market operations without sound equity levels, are still not sufficiently involved in the refinancing of the real economy. finally, the ecb's action is still disconnected from national economic realities and supranational monetary policy does not respond to the needs of the economy and the imperatives of reducing public debt. i voted against this report, which shows the difficulties the ecb is having in reforming itself and justifying the relevance of its strategies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which breaks open doors by denouncing various problems of the euro, but only because they have become too obvious to continue to be hidden. this report suggests even more recourse to inadequate solutions in favour of more europe when this is precisely the cause of the problem. finally, the very existence of the european central bank is contrary to the principle of monetary sovereignty which we defend.
in writing. ‒ the report generally welcomes the ecb's performance in 2013. and more particularly the stabilisation of the imbalances of target ii, in other words its financial coup d'état imposed on cyprus. the report even rejects any responsibility for the continuation of the crisis, urging us not to "overestimate the impact on the real economy of the unconventional monetary policy measures currently being used". this monetary policy is designed only to serve austerity in order to "give member states time to clean up their public finances and implement the necessary structural reforms". finally, if the report asks the ecb to 'assume a less important role within the troika', it is of course to 'increase its independence from political decisions'. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ 2014 was a year of news for the european central bank. so it is a bit out of date to formulate a political opinion on its 2013 report in march 2015. the bidegain report itself goes very far beyond this framework and comments on the recent action of the ecb. it is not sufficiently critical of the policy pursued and of the cost of supporting the single currency. the ecb has used up the interest rate weapon (reduced to the historical low in september), then the unconventional tools (tltro and abs launched in 2014, quantitative easing initiated in early 2015) without succeeding in reviving economic growth. in addition, under the banking union, the ecb took over the supervision of systemic institutions, thus depriving the states of their supervisory power. the euro area, which the ecb represents, is more than ever an area of macroeconomic divergence. the ecb not only failed to revive european economies, but it also failed to fulfil its mandate of price stability (deflation risk) and economic convergence.
in writing. the report welcomes the willingness of the european central bank to sacrifice the economies of the euro area countries to save the euro and then expresses surprise at the lack of economic activity in the euro area. it is precisely the rescue of the single currency that is leading the european and national institutions to adopt an 'austerity' legal framework, and this without any academic basis. it would be wrong to isolate monetary policy. the budgetary policy itself is fuelling the risk of deflation by contracting domestic demand. a more expansionary economic policy risks leading to a situation of 'fiscal dominance' from which there is no way out, and the risk of causing a major economic crisis. the asset quality test did not test the impact of deflation on the banks' balance sheet. the economic futility of the single currency must therefore be taken into account by providing for a transition to a common currency with annual adjustment of monetary parities. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the ecb's annual report 2013. the text welcomes the latest measures adopted by the ecb to promote sme financing and to boost economic activity in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives a fair assessment of the economic situation in the euro area in the post-crisis period and of the reforms needed to revive growth.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text which takes stock of the activity of the european central bank (ecb) during the year 2013; the ecb is in charge of the monetary policy of the euro area. the report commended the ecb's work and determination in saving the euro and its responsiveness in a very difficult economic and financial context. nevertheless, growth in the european union has remained negative and high unemployment rates in some member states threaten the stability of the euro area and the european project. in this worrying context, it is essential to create the conditions for a revival of investment, both at european and member state level. the member states are therefore asked to work towards structural reforms that create a business-friendly environment and the ecb to ensure that its policies are better adapted to the real economy, in particular with regard to smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes stock of the european central bank's work. the report welcomes the decisive action of the ecb, which, by reaffirming its determination to save the euro and by launching a programme of 'quantitative easing', has helped to calm financial markets and restore investor confidence. the programme, which has been operational since 9 march 2015, will buy up to €60 billion per month in government bonds to fight deflation and boost growth. this oxygen balloon should enable the member states to implement the structural reforms necessary to regain competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ since the ecb's policy is beyond democratic control and its aims and methods are questionable vis-à-vis certain states such as greece, i am opposed to this report. i am opposed to the independence of the ecb and i think on the contrary that employment policy must also be at the heart of the ecb. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the very existence of the ecb is contrary to our principles of monetary sovereignty. the 2013 balance sheet reflects the policy of confiscation of our independence. i therefore vote against this text.
(the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
(start of the off-microphone intervention) for 2016 are showing a blatant hypocrisy. it consists in accepting the budgetary adjustments of the member states while at the same time being concerned about the economic consequences of this. these detailed guidelines are a must. the european union, on the one hand, deplores the collapse of public investment and, on the other hand, is legally organising the austerity that is responsible for it. according to the commission's own research service, austerity cost france 4.8 percentage points of gdp between 2011 and 2013. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the growth and employment pact had a leverage of 6 and ended up with 2. it does not provide any new budgetary stimulus and does not meet the investment needs estimated at €235 billion per year to boost economic activity. the committee on budgets is also concerned about the plight of smes by praising the cosme programme, whereas their problems lie more in the economic depression and weakness inherent in the euro area. finally, while the cold-blooded bureaucratic monster of the european union is teaching lessons in good management, its outstanding debts amounted to 30 billion euros at the end of december 2014. ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to give back to the states the full enjoyment of their budgetary sovereignty. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, madam commissioner, this report of the epp, which has been laundered with lukewarm water, unfortunately does not sufficiently express the great challenge of the european budget in these times of crisis, namely to become a means of recovery. yes, it is imperative to resolve the payment crisis in order to restore credibility and room for manoeuvre to the european budget, and in this respect we will - as you know - pay particular attention to your proposals for a debt-clearing plan. but this question of the crisis in payments must not hide the dysfunctions of the union, nor the gaping budgetary gaps, some of which are structural. i would like to mention a number of problems: the delays in programming the structural funds, to the extent that we have to change the multiannual financial framework at a time when europe is in urgent need of investment; the youth employment initiative, which has so far failed to meet the objectives which parliament had entrusted to the commission and the member states; budgetary constraints, which deprive the union and the member states of the means to respond to the global challenges of the fight against terrorism, the ukrainian crisis and the great climate challenge. and, most importantly, there are our difficulties in funding innovation, the energy transition, the fight against climate change, blue growth. in short, everything that should stimulate growth in the future but which today cannot find the means either at union or national level. if investment in europe is a priority, we must have the courage to leave room for manoeuvre to the member states by giving the treaty on stability, coordination and governance (tscg) greater flexibility, for example by removing contributions to the union budget from the calculation of deficits. of course there is mr juncker's plan, but as it stands it would reduce funding for research and infrastructure projects and give the eib an extension to finance projects that are not very good. i ask you, commissioner, how can you accept that your prerogatives are being challenged? the question of financing the juncker plan must, in our view, be returned to the annual budgetary procedure and be given all the necessary leeway. finally, i would like to emphasize the last point in our resolution, the structural question of the budget: the union's own resources. commissioner, you have assured me of your determination on this matter and i thank you for that, but we must hurry to get this project under way as soon as possible.
madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, in expressing my full agreement with the guidelines presented by our general rapporteur, mr josé manuel fernandes, i would like to express two wishes. the first concerns our procedures. the rigidity of the european budget runs counter to the need for growth and job creation. a budget for seven years with a cap, locked in, cannot be an effective and responsive combat budget that meets the expectations of our fellow citizens as they expressed them in the may 2014 elections. everything is so tightly locked that no commitments could be made in 2014 on the new programmes resulting in a €21 billion carry-over to 2015 and beyond. at the end of 2016, the commission will have to chart the path for a post-election revision of the multiannual financial framework promised by governments when they signed the european budget. we hope that the commission, which claims to be courageous and political, will help the european union to get out of these sterilizing procedures. the 2016 budget should reflect the expected changes - i am thinking in particular of the actions to be taken to control migration flows and prevent the mediterranean from becoming a marine cemetery. my second wish, of course, is for a debt-clearing plan. it's a matter of solidarity and ... (end of the off-microphone speech)
mr president, mr arthuis, good for you, if you want to control the flow of migrants, if you have been granted a pardon, i congratulate you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. so, we could quote shakespeare tonight: "much ado about nothing", but also "a silent reminder". the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget. where is the mention of aid which today does not even make up for the low prices? what about investment that has become increasingly weak as our structures suffer in the face of the needs of modernisation and competition? the whole text presented in the era of agricultural land fumes is a matter of fumigation and fumigation. european farmers will appreciate being the big losers in this budget.
madam president, commissioner, like the swallows in spring, the budget is once again at the heart of our daily lives. in view of the difficult negotiations for 2015, i strongly believe that parliament must be given more attention, particularly on the issue of unpaid invoices for the cohesion programme. we must give the future budget a clear orientation towards growth and employment. this orientation is obviously to be found in investment. the investment in the future, which includes university research, investment in the energy challenge, but also investment in the whole question of infrastructure, in the real economy in general and in industrial developments which will help to find the jobs that europe needs. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be able to accept it. i therefore believe that the european investment bank must play a greater role in guaranteeing the juncker plan.
madam president, the european union is a source of fraud. we are not talking about vat fraud, which is facilitated by the functioning of the european union; in france alone, they amount to several tens of billions of euros. the fraudulent irregularities detected - not to mention those not detected and not even estimated - amount to eur 309 million from the own budget. the social cohesion policy is responsible for 160 million. so, a noble policy serves corruption. can we fight fraud if the union facilitates the free movement of criminal money without exchange controls and transfers at the level of the states? this text also promotes the european public prosecutor's office. is it still a question of taking away from the states a sovereign competence, namely justice? our european institutions are a machine that no one controls anymore. long live the return to a democratic europe of states!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 march 2015, at 1 p.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the high level world conference on ebola of 3 march 2015 (2015/2606 ((rsp)).
madam president, one year after the first cases of ebola, a first assessment is necessary. it is clear that despite the warnings, the local and international responses were far too late and are therefore partly responsible for the scale of the epidemic over 9,000 deaths. one of the main causes of contagion is burials with local rites, so there are still pockets of cases. but despite all this, the epidemic was, fortunately, contained fairly quickly. however, we can add that the rainy season will bring opportunities for other fevers, including malaria, and new panics. that, despite our requests, no consideration has been given to setting up reception centres in the member states, that the eur 4.9 billion planned and the eur 2.4 billion already paid have not been the subject of the setting up of control structures. we shall see how this is done at the meetings of the donors in april and june. for all these reasons, we will remain very vigilant not to relive 40 years of endowment to africa that ended in bottomless wells, with no benefit to the local populations.
madam president, there are three conclusions to be drawn from this international conference. first of all, a word of thanks to the commission. i think that all the heads of state - whether it be liberia, sierra leone or guinea - have really thanked both the united states and europe. the second thing is that they ask for help, because their economy is in a sorry state - we even talk about a war situation - and the third thing is to cancel the debt of the countries. they asked for it, i want to tell our colleagues. first of all, and in any case, we have to be careful, ebola is not over. i have recently received reports that there are still a few homes in guinea and sierra leone. so we are far from a situation where everything is over and we can go back to the way things were before. the second thing is that there is absolutely no trust in these countries as far as the structures are concerned. now there are deaths from malaria and some women don't want to go to these facilities anymore because they've seen people die from them. so we need to rebuild trust and we need to plan. in planning, i think we have to think regionally and make sure that there are really hospitals, because contrary to what has been said, before the ebola virus, there was no health infrastructure; it wasn't the ebola virus that caused this. we really need to think about mobile labs because the sooner we can diagnose diseases, the sooner we can respond. the training of staff and the provision of free education are also needed. you have to know that in these countries, you pay for education; in liberia, you have to pay. with all this we will be able to bring these countries back up.
mr president, it is clear that neither the commission nor the other international organizations have been able to cope with the dramatic challenge of the ebola virus. i had asked the who regional director for europe and the commission about the controls on immigrant populations coming illegally into the union - a migration flow that increased by 153% in 2014. i was told that there was no risk of contagion from this immigration and that it was up to the member states to carry out these checks at the union's borders. irresponsibility is still the rule in these institutions. the imf and the world bank also bear a large share of the responsibility for this crisis. by providing loans to countries in sub-saharan africa, the new educators of the people demanded structural adjustments that reduced health budgets in those countries that had become unable to treat the epidemic. finally, the migration policies have led to the depletion of africa's brains and doctors. so it is by breaking down national borders and economic independence that the antichambers of globalism have fostered this scourge. you don't solve problems with the people who created them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner stylianides for his intervention and his commitment as european coordinator for the ebola virus. he's done a considerable amount of work, and i wanted to congratulate him. i share his conclusions on the need for a comprehensive approach in our fight against the ebola virus. all actors must be involved, because if a country remains infected, we will not be able to contain the epidemic. only by working closely with the countries affected - liberia, sierra leone and guinea - and with the countries of the region and international bodies can the epidemic be stopped. it is also necessary to consider the reconstruction period of the affected countries and to have a long-term strategy. the european union has played a crucial role in the fight against ebola by mobilising funds to provide immediate assistance to victims, as well as by allocating additional funds for ebola research. european cooperation and development funds will also have to be mobilised in the coming months to strengthen health systems in developing countries in a sustainable way. it is now crucial that we continue our efforts and learn from our mistakes in this crisis so that in the future both the countries concerned and the international community can respond immediately to this type of disaster. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i do not understand your question about the point of return of debts. if this concerns developing countries, i cannot answer your question.
mr president, commissioner, despite the mobilization - as was said earlier - of the european institutions in the face of the plague of the ebola virus, we must still say that we have been short of everything. the world health organization, for example, told us that there would be no more than 20,000 people affected. but 25,000 people were affected and nearly 10,000 died. as the ebola outbreak is not over, it is important that the world health organization can take a number of urgent measures: rebuild and strengthen national and international emergency preparedness and response, review the process for marketing authorisation of new medicines, and strengthen who's emergency response mechanisms. the rainy season is coming. therefore, i think we must be prepared to avoid a second catastrophe.
mr president, we must of course remain vigilant, as you know, because we are not yet at zero cases. but i really wish - you haven't talked about this enough, i think - that we were learning the lessons for the future from the international community's rather belated response. five months before the who really gets into it and says things, there's a real problem. this conference was a very good initiative. i congratulate you. we need to act in at least two ways. everybody said that. we must actively support a research policy for vaccines, for medicines, for tests too. this is extremely important. and then we have to -- that was the most important point of this conference, and it is -- develop a common strategy that is cross-border, that takes into account the development of health and health networks in these parts of the world, that also supports the economy because we know, of course, that it has been extremely and severely hit by the ebola virus, and it's not over. we must therefore simply continue to maintain the commitment of the international community and europe, as you well know. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i think it is very important that the public authorities themselves and the european union itself in the first place invest in research. it's our job, it's our responsibility.
mr president, the european union continues to finance candidate countries for membership while many people are suffering the economic consequences of its policies. it's completely unfair and even suicidal, i would say. it imposes its own guidelines, its own dogmas, which must not be deviated from. so the standardization is underway, and we even have to follow your diplomatic positions on ukraine, among other things. agriculture is one of the sectors financed and will therefore have to meet the standards laid down by the cap. in view of the criticisms made in this report of good administrative management, we can ask questions about the application of the standards while our farmers are drowning under the controls. you are financing the development of agriculture whose products will compete directly with ours in our markets. in this case, with montenegro, it is wine and, of course, fruit and vegetables. already last year you organized unfair competition in the grain sector with your support for ukrainian wheat. so you are pursuing a policy of systematically destroying our farms and the enlargements you are preparing will only make the situation worse. it's just disgusting! (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i am thinking first of all of french agriculture and french farmers. i am one of them, because i am a farmer myself. in france we are facing unfair competition from european and even non-european countries, since we are also talking about importing fruit and vegetables from turkey, moldova, montenegro, and so on. this situation is becoming unbearable for our producers. i see them on the field regularly and that's what they tell me. this is unbearable for france. that's what i have to say, ma'am.
mr president, the union wants enlargement at all costs. in fact, by enlargement it wants to obey the orders of nato and the americans. in this case, democracy, the rule of law, the criminal mafias are forgotten, everything is forgotten! mr djukanovic, a communist and now prime minister, is suspected by the european anti-fraud office of various serious and even very serious fraud in all kinds of trafficking. we forget! we forget about systematic electoral fraud, attacks on ngos denounced by transparency, we forget about the murder of journalists! all this is normal in the process of democratic purification in europe. our european institutions still use the double language of oriented and manipulated moral pruritus. let us put an end to this european policy which, from kosovo to montenegro, legitimizes crime and the mafia to create criminal and mafia states!
mr president, the juncker plan, which is supposed to boost growth, is likely to fail. with only 21 billion euros of public money, it will not allow the release of 300 billion euros of private funds. and that is a good thing, because this plan would give private capital, backed by the financial guarantee of the european union, control of public infrastructure of general interest. the agreement on trade in services - which i hope will never come into being - generalises the process of compulsory and systematic competition between private companies for all public services. the commission is trying to complete its work by emptying the concept of public service and general interest of its meaning. in france, the sncf was an effective public service. with deregulation, it is sliding more and more into the private sector with increasingly expensive tickets, incomprehensible fares and a shrinking choice of destinations. the commission is stubborn. the same pattern is repeated: stealthily dismantling public services and transferring them to the private sector, sometimes with government money as a bonus. we have a duty to oppose it firmly.
mr president, this is the seventh summit of the union on energy in five years. in february 2011, the focus was on developing the european energy market. in june 2012, the deal was to be completed. in may 2013, it was the launch of the new energy strategy. in december 2013, it was time to relaunch this new strategy. in march 2014, back to the completion of the internal energy market. and october 2014 saw the arrival of the new energy-climate package. each time, there was a bubble effect: bubble of ambition, bubble of goals. the rhetorical bubble is swelling. but each time, energy europe is backsliding. because, in the meantime, each country has pursued its own selfish national policy. the union has failed to react effectively to russia's use of gas weapons. it has failed to react to the rapid development of unconventional hydrocarbons and the emissions trading system (ets) has collapsed. the commission proposal brings a draft global policy to the council for the first time. let us adopt it once and for all and let us plan for the eighth european council on energy to meet in five years' time to see that the policy we need is actually being implemented.
mr president, madam president, mr vice-president, when it comes to the energy union, it is time to act. but you will not act consistently if you do not give a clear signal about the price of carbon. but on this very concrete issue, on the step that lies before us, at hand, i see great reluctance on the part of the council to use the stability reserve. so, madam president, if you want this european council to be useful, including in making the paris summit a success, we must move faster on what this parliament is asking you to implement, namely the stability reserve and a clarification to allow long-term investment in favour of the ecological transition in the face of the carbon price challenge. the european council also welcomed the fact that the eu had taken the lead in the negotiations on the transatlantic agreement, and that the eu had been able to reach a consensus on the issue. i would remind you of his words, expressing his reservations about the operation of the investor-state dispute settlement system (isds), and i would like him to stick to the commitment he made to this house. we have heard the most ardent supporters of this agreement say: 'first, when we have defined these standards together, they will become the international standards.' they also tell us that we have to be demanding. i do not know how to react when we are told that we must be demanding in negotiations and that we must reach an agreement at any cost and at any speed. on the other hand, it is the isds standards that europeans must weigh. they must use this agreement as a lever to deal with this issue in a fundamental way and not allow the multinationals to use arbitration to defend their own interests and profit in defiance of democracy.
in writing. the next european council will set three priorities: external relations, the european semester for growth and jobs and the energy union. the council is continuing to make greater progress on these three priorities. the commission is proposing to go further in the single market, which it will liberalize more and more. he also commits us to the development of renewable energy even as china is unfairly competing with us and killing our industries in this sector. the union refuses to face up to reality when it comes to jobs and growth. the austerity it advocates kills growth and prevents any recovery through investment. the juncker plan is not up to the mark. it is vital to change economic policy by ending the dogma of the single currency and introducing intelligent protectionism. finally, we must categorically reject ttip, which will put the peoples of europe even more under the thumb of multinationals and american whims. finally, in the case of ukraine, the union would be well advised to ally itself with russia in order not to systematically align itself with us interests which are often in contradiction with european demands.
in writing. i agree with mr juncker when he points out, not without humour and diplomacy, the versatility of the european heads of state and government with regard to the transatlantic treaty. it is intolerable that the speeches of the latter change depending on whether they are in brussels or in their capital. there are two possible explanations. firstly, by supporting ttip in brussels, they are lying to the commission. it is irresponsible, but it is much less so than giving brussels officials the mandate to negotiate this vicious agreement on their behalf, and above all in their stead. secondly, they go home and lie to their people, making them believe that they still have the will and the power to change the course of things. you are right, mr juncker: ask them for clarification, they listen to you while they are deaf to the aspirations of their citizens. they're not lying to you, they're lying to their own people, fueled by the holy terror of the half-witted election officials who are advertising. our governments, especially in france, are not only lying, they are doing so in a total absence of political vision and in unfailing submission to interests which are neither those of their nations nor those of a true europe.
kalniņa-lukaševica,president-in-office of the council. – mr president, vice-president dombrovskis, commissioners, rapporteurs and honourable members, it is a great pleasure for the latvian presidency to have this opportunity to discuss with you today the european semester, which has become, in less than five years, a core process for economic policy coordination in europe. the economic situation does not look as bleak as it did some time ago, and recent data give cause for moderate optimism, but i believe we all acknowledge that europe is not yet where it wants to be. the economic recovery is fragile, the legacy of debt weighs heavily on most member states and the employment situation remains difficult. the european semester was created in 2010 for europe to exit the crisis through better coordination of our economic action. this coordination has not always been easy and it still is not. the economies of member states differ and so do their policy priorities. but with the semester we have a common framework in which to discuss these policies, and their impact on europe as a whole, and to agree on the way forward. we are now looking more carefully at the implementation of the policy recommendations issued under the european semester. parliament is right to highlight in the resolution that more should be done in that context. the commission is working closely with each member state to pursue implementation. the council is also doing its part, taking a collective look, at ministerial and at expert level, at how the commonly agreed policies are being implemented, exchanging best practices and generating peer pressure. rebalancing and restructuring our economies cannot be done overnight. that is why we need to stay the course, and i am convinced that our joint efforts will pay off. turning now more specifically to this year’s semester and the 2015 annual growth survey: as you may know, the latvian presidency has engaged the council in broad discussions on the annual growth survey. obviously, the ministers of finance and employment have contributed but we have also debated the annual growth survey in the competitiveness, energy and environment councils. the transport council will address the issue this friday. this is further proof of the semester being embedded into our way of conducting economic policy, and more broadly all policies that contribute to growth and jobs. as far as finance ministers are concerned, yesterday in the ecofin council, vice-president dombrovskis presented the country reports on the economic policies of member states, prepared as part of the european semester. the council had a first exchange of views on them. it will discuss the in-depth reviews in may and the country-specific recommendations for all member states in june. the latvian presidency also decided to link the council debates on the european semester to broader sectoral policy initiatives. taking the example of energy, the annual growth survey was examined by the energy ministers in the same context as the new energy union and energy infrastructure proposals. looking at things from the energy policy perspective, the european semester is a tool for implementing, for example, the internal energy market. at the same time, the energy union is necessary to generate more growth in europe. what, then, are the results of the council’s work on the annual growth survey? first, i am pleased to say that the council fully agrees with the overall approach of the annual growth survey. by this i mean the integrated approach based on three mutually—supportive pillars: investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. each of these is a necessary ingredient for reaching our growth and jobs objectives. on investment, as you may know, the council is taking forward the investment plan for europe diligently. yesterday, only two months after the commission presented its proposal, the ecofin council adopted a general approach on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) proposal. for the presidency it is important to deliver concrete results that can benefit citizens. the presidency is now ready to negotiate with parliament and we will do our utmost to find an agreement by this summer, as called for by the european council. i know this house shares with us the sense of urgency and i hope it will be able to progress swiftly. we look forward to the first trilogue. the great potential of efsi is obvious. but it is just as obvious that we need to pursue in parallel the other strands of the investment plan. i refer in particular to improving the investment climate and, more generally, the business environment in europe. one of the most effective ways to do this is to reduce the regulatory burden at both european and national level. but we also have to ensure the necessary regulatory certainty for economic operators. moreover, we should not look at the efsi in isolation. eur 315 billion is a lot of money, but if we can harness synergies between the efsi and other eu programmes, structural funds and national funding, we will do even better. lastly, talking about investment, i want to highlight the need for special efforts to facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises’ access to finance, both at the stage of start—ups and also at the critical growth phase. the council looks forward to the initiatives that the commission will be taking on the capital markets union. looking now at the second pillar, structural reforms, these remain as necessary as ever. we must acknowledge that a lot has been done in many member states, and also that most of the reforms require a long—term perspective. a national education system, for example, cannot be overhauled within a year. council debates on the annual growth survey are, in fact, a great vehicle for exchanging experiences between member states on what works on the ground. they also contribute to our collective knowledge on how to prepare reforms in an inclusive way, engaging the relevant stakeholders. the pursuit of the european single market is strongly related to structural reforms at national level. here the discussions within the council point to the need to adopt a pragmatic, sector-oriented approach. to be effective, europe should focus on the sectors with highest potential, in particular the digital economy, energy, transport, telecommunications and services. under services, retail, business, construction and tourism services are among those that we want to look at as a priority. what emerges from these council debates is the emphasis on implementation and enforcement of existing single market legislation. your draft resolution on single market governance shows that our views converge on many issues. looking now at the last, though not the least, pillar of the annual growth survey, fiscal responsibility, we first have to recognise the significant progress made, since the crisis, in getting our public finances in order. the euro area as a whole now has a neutral fiscal stance and this is no small achievement, considering where we started from. unfortunately, we cannot rest on our laurels. public debt, in particular, is an issue that warrants our full attention if we are to safeguard the recovery and also to prepare ourselves to confront any crisis. hence, the council insists that all member states stay on course with fiscal consolidation – but not with any kind of consolidation. it should be differentiated, depending on the fiscal situation of each member state, and overall it should be growth friendly. in practice this means, for example, giving priority to tax reforms that can generate growth and securing public spending in growth areas such as education and research. before finishing, i would like to say a few words on ‘digital europe’. as you may know, it is one of the three priorities of the latvian presidency. i see it is also well covered in your resolution. we have used the council discussions on the annual growth survey to look too at the potential of the digital economy for the eu growth and jobs agenda. it is clear that europe needs a digital transformation to re-establish its status as a leading player in the global digital economy. digitisation should cut across all policy fields, from industrial to environmental policies. to digitise europe, member states need to reinforce their efforts at national level, but there are also a number of initiatives that we need to pursue at european level. in this regard, the council also looks forward to the commission presenting a comprehensive and ambitious digital single market strategy later this spring. i could continue further on the priorities and considerations of the council with regard to the annual growth survey or the european semester in general, and there are a number of other important issues raised in your resolutions that i could address. but i believe it is more important that we now engage in a discussion on the european semester and where our priorities this year should lie. i thank you very much and i look forward to hearing your views.
vice—president of the commission.– mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteurs, mr rosati, mr gáll—pelcz and mr gutiérrez prieto, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for their work. the european semester is our key tool for fostering convergence in europe’s economic and social policy and making sure that everyone plays their role to bring back jobs. the european semester will work only if we build a shared understanding of the key economic and social policy challenges. this is why your reports and today’s debates are so important. as highlighted in parliament’s reports, in spite of an ongoing recovery, the economic situation remains fragile and requires urgent action. we agree that structural, fiscal and monetary policies have to be combined to tackle the current challenges effectively, and that social considerations must enter more explicitly into the formulation of economic policies. i am pleased to see parliament’s support for the commission’s economic policy priorities: investment, structural reform and fiscal responsibility. firstly, we need a coordinated boost to investment. your support for the investment plan is highly welcome. the council agreed yesterday on a general approach on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), and we strongly hope that it will be possible to finalise a legislative act by june so that the efsi can be fully deployed from mid—2015. the fact that several member states intend to contribute via their national promotional banks is also very good news. secondly, we need structural reforms. they are needed for competitiveness, for investment, for a better adjustment capacity and, ultimately, to create quality jobs and sustain our social market economies. labour markets and social systems face heavy fallout from the crisis. unemployment is still unacceptably high, especially among young people and the long—term unemployed. inequality and poverty have risen. we must create new jobs without adding to labour market segmentation. commissioner thyssen will elaborate on this. product and services market reforms are also needed in order to stimulate competition and innovation and to reduce prices for customers and costs for businesses. ambitious reforms are a task not only for member states but also for the european level. the commission has, in recent weeks, delivered strategies on the capital markets union and the energy union, and the digital single market will follow soon. the commission will also put forward a fresh internal market strategy by the end of the year, and commissioner bieńkowska will address this in a moment. thirdly, we need to pursue fiscal responsibility. without downplaying the achievements so far, most member states still need to work on their debt sustainability. at the same time, member states with more fiscal room for manoeuvre have an opportunity to increase their investments. these priorities are translated into country—specific analysis and conclusions in the economic governance package adopted by the commission at the end of february. the package took into account the commission’s communication on the best use of flexibility within the stability and growth pact. to make this three—pillar strategy work we must make better use of our system of economic governance. our common challenge is to stimulate implementation of our policy recommendations in the member states. to do this we believe that it is important to increase transparency and dialogue, as well as ownership of, and commitment to, the implementation of reforms. as a first step this year, we published the commission’s country analyses much earlier in the semester cycle. these reports present a clear view on the economic situation and on policy implementation. we now have three months of additional time for discussions and feedback on the analyses before the commission issues its recommendations in may. my fellow members of the commission and i, with other commission representatives, will travel to a number of member states for discussions with parliamentarians, social partners and governments. europe needs to re—embark on a path of real economic convergence in terms of growth and jobs and to address social concerns. to get there, member states must deliver on structural, fiscal and social policies and the eu must strengthen key common policies in fields such as energy, the digital single market and taxation. i look forward to a constructive and fruitful debate with you today.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the three rapporteurs and to remind you that, for the first time since 2007, the economies of all the eu member states are expected to grow again in 2015. but the pace of recovery is slow and the social consequences of the crisis are severe. this challenging backdrop requires an ambitious policy agenda. the 2015 annual growth survey and the aligned economic policy agenda marked a new start, one that is based on investment, structural reform and fiscal responsibility, our famous triangle. the proposed eur 315 billion investment package channelled through the european fund for strategic investment aims to address the problem of weak demand and to stimulate investment in the real economy, where jobs are created. a key aspect of this investment package is to remove barriers for investment, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), and i am very pleased that my colleague elzbieta bieńkowsa is with us today to discuss the european semester, since a strong single market and product market reform are also necessary to improve the environment for investment. one of the core messages of the 2015 annual growth survey is that reforms supporting the sound functioning of labour markets work. so do reforms improving the effectiveness of social protection systems. these reforms must continue. in both the commission’s investment initiative and the annual growth survey, employment and social concerns feature as cross—cutting priorities. together they reflect the commission’s intention to place greater focus on jobs and growth and the social impact of fiscal and macroeconomic policies. this is a recognition that prolonged employment and social problems act as a drag on growth and social inclusion. this commission believes that this agenda and its strong focus on social fairness and on the social dimension of reforms will help to build a solid foundation for sustained growth and greater social and economic convergence. the commission’s publication on 26 february 2015 of a surveillance package, comprising 27 country reports, a euro area report and an accompanying communication, is a second step within the renewed european semester. you can clearly see the increased consideration that the commission is giving to employment and social concerns in the country reports. these reports, as you know, form the analytical basis for the country—specific recommendations. let me also draw your attention to another novelty. the commission has published the country—specific analysis in a single document for each country, three months in advance. this streamlined and reinforced approach aims to simplify the process, at the same time as increasing joint ownership of it. in practice the commission has now made an effort to extend the exchanges of views between institutions and stakeholders at national and european level to allow for constructive dialogue with member states’ parliaments, social partners and civil society. for example, i found the discussion i had with ministers of social affairs and employment last monday in the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) very enriching. last week the commission also committed, at a high—level event we organised to promote social dialogue, to ensuring a stronger role for the social partners in the european semester. this is, of course, also the time for the parliament to intervene and that is why i find this debate extremely useful today. i am keen to listen to members and follow the debate now.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, the single market is a core part of the european semester, which is of course a joint exercise between the commission and the member states. i can compare the single market to a launch pad to get europe out of the crisis; it will allow us to unlock the investment potential in europe and, hopefully, create opportunities for our consumers and investors. but, if we are to make the most of it, we need to remove the remaining barriers and bottlenecks. i want to thank very much ms gáll-pelcz, mr rosati and mr gutiérrez prieto for their report. it is timely; it covers the most important issues and most urgent tasks. on the single market our first priority should be to make existing single market rules work to their full potential. we need better implementation – as ms gáll-pelcz said – effective monitoring and stronger enforcement. the commission has already set up a single market governance strategy to promote that. this includes implementation objectives for all legislation – in particular there will be a zero tolerance approach to the service directive. there will also be further development of online governance tools, such as your europe, solvit and the online single market scoreboard. we also duly stated the conclusions of the parliamentary cost of non—europe report. the european parliament expressed regrets that the annual single market integration report was not published this year and there was no sign or single market topic in the annual growth survey. let me be very clear: we are not reducing our efforts. on the contrary, we want to improve the quality and the impact of the reporting; we want to integrate all possible instruments and we are, of course, looking now at how to do this and working very intensively on this. for example, we are looking at streamlining the reports. we are looking at putting more focus on economic indicators because i deeply believe streamlining single market governance will help our wider efforts on the single market. this year, as was also mentioned, we will launch two major initiatives centred on the single market. the first one: the digital single market package, which will be released on 6 may 2015, and then for the end of this year we are planning the internal market strategy. all the proposed actions will be based solid economic grounds and impact assessments. there will be an objective assessment of what works and what does not. i can assure you that we will take the time to ask the right questions and to answer them properly. let me put a few of them. is harmonisation in the area of goods as efficient as it should be? can we improve or even extend the application of the mutual recognition principle in goods and services? how do we address the link between goods and services? how do we tackle the remaining barriers in goods and services? how do we get rid of discrimination over access to goods, services and online content cross—border? how can we get rid of the obstacles to cross—border e—commerce? how do we reduce the administrative burden on our companies to the minimum? these are only some of the questions we need to answer. and we need to do it in partnership with you and the member states. that is why this debate today is so useful. i really count on our close cooperation in the course of this year and in the course of the whole mandate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european semester is the quick response to the shock of the sovereign debt crisis, particularly in greece. crisis resulting from the scandalous absence of government in the euro area for ten years. when states agree to give each other the same currency, they must ensure that their entire territory constitutes an optimal economic zone. without convergence of tax and social legislation, without coordination of economic policies, without a genuine government, it is vain to pretend to escape instability and tragedy. to give substance to this governance and coordination, i make three recommendations: first, the allocation of a share of the european union's unpaid invoices to the member states' accounts to assess whether they are running an excessive deficit. it's a matter of credibility, a prerequisite for trust. we talked about this at length yesterday in connection with the 2016 budget. secondly, the standardisation of the presentation of the contributions of the states to the budget of the european union in their public accounts. it's a matter of consistency and readability. finally, the presentation of public accounts and the procedures for certifying their veracity should be harmonized. the aggregation of all these public accounts would express the true budget of europe and would undoubtedly facilitate cooperation between governments.
mr president, this european semester highlights a positive fact: growth is returning to europe. however, it remains a fragile and heterogeneous phenomenon. it is true that europe is suffering: it is suffering from a lack of investment - the rosati report says it very well. investment is still 20% lower than in the pre-crisis period. so it is true that the juncker investment plan is one of the answers. of course, we support this plan, but it will only be successful if trust is restored. but today we still have smes closing their doors, employees who are unemployed, young people leaving europe because they have no work and, of course, economic insecurity which prevents companies from investing. it is time for europe to regain the confidence of investors. there is no growth without trust. and there is no trust without fiscal consolidation and debt relief. i have seen the example of spain, which i visited last week. i have seen that the reforms already undertaken have led to a reduction in unemployment and the creation of new jobs. the situation is not the same in all member states. france, for example, is a country with many assets: it has many resources, it can rely on its extraordinary human capital, its dynamic regions and its smes. what a waste! because, in the absence of reforms of lasting impact, france is falling behind and threatens to drag the whole of europe along with it. that is why i want the commission to be firm. france must respect the rules of the stability and growth pact. the commission must of course listen to the people - as we have seen in the case of greece - but it must not listen to all the sirens. giving france two more years to implement its reforms is a heavy responsibility: to pass the burden of debt on to future generations and to delay economic recovery.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european semester is not an end in itself. it is a tool for analysing public policies which will implement the objectives which are at the heart of these public policies. far from being an accounting exercise, this coordination must measure the effects on the ability to revive the economy while reducing inequalities. this requires respect for the three pillars of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental. the report shows that much remains to be done. firstly, tax harmonization, the elimination of this competition and of this fiscal dumping between states. in public procurement too, to help smes, small businesses and artisans through calls for tenders that not only aim at low costs but also at a more sustainable economy and jobs that cannot be relocated. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in the end, beyond our differences, this report on the governance of the single market tries to find this balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions. that is why, on behalf of the green group, we shall vote in favour of this report.
mr president, while fiscal consolidation in the euro area countries is far from complete, the european institutions have still not understood that it is the austerity corset that prevents any lasting recovery and any parallel reduction in unemployment. the commission is counting on the rescue of the euro, which was supposed to be catastrophic only yesterday, and the fall in oil prices to keep the economies of european countries afloat and boost employment. but it may not last. while the unemployment rate, especially among the youngest and least qualified, has exploded in france and the countries of the south, the proposed measures do little to hide the sense of helplessness in the face of the consequences of the measures which the commission cherishes. the youth employment initiative and the youth guarantee are mere caucuses on a wooden leg, which do not sufficiently address the essential issues of training and low-skilled workers. with the unemployment rate in the euro zone at 11.5% compared with only 7.3% outside the euro zone, the european union is putting a modest veil over the real debates to be held on the single currency and on smart protectionism.
in writing. the european parliament gives its opinion on the annual growth survey 2015, the comprehensive analysis document initiating the european semester, which is intended to ensure the coordination of economic policies in europe. the distribution of powers between the various parliamentary committees leaves me in doubt. the report on employment and social aspects in the context of the annual growth review provides a clear analysis of the disastrous consequences of the austerity policies in the peripheral countries of the union, but also of the accelerated fiscal consolidation measures which have broken the mechanism of the recovery. i welcome the excellent work of the socialist rapporteur, sergio gutiérrez prieto, who has convinced a majority of members to support a plan to combat dumping and tax evasion and to call for the introduction of an ambitious financial transaction tax. the report of the committee on economic affairs, however, contradicts this analysis, referring to the 'success' of the troika programmes in greece, portugal and ireland, while calling on the other states to show the same ambition in modernising their economies. the troika's record is disastrous: economic recession, explosion of unemployment and significant increase in debt.
mr president, my motion is also based on rules 11, 12, 186 and annex 11 to our rules of procedure. indeed, when i arrived in strasbourg, my colleagues, our assistants and i were astonished to learn from the press that president schulz was publicly calling us to account, a few days before the french elections, in the most hostile media, asking his friend, the french socialist minister of justice, to prosecute us even before the european bureau's inquiry had begun.
madam president, in that case i shall withdraw the motion for a resolution (rule 164) in order to support your interpretation. i would like to ask you to give me a minute to speak on a point of order and i can tell you precisely what my point of order is based on: the relevant rules of procedure ...
madam president, i note that you have given the floor on points of order which have nothing to do with the rules of procedure of parliament, nothing to do with the debates this morning, including to challenge one of the members of this house, and that, when i was telling you very precisely on which point of the rules of procedure i was basing my point of order, you have given me a rather surprising inquiry. then let's get to the point. when i arrived in strasbourg, my colleagues, our assistants and i were astonished to learn from the press that president schulz had publicly accused us, a few days before the french elections, in the most hostile media, asking his friend, the french socialist minister of justice, to prosecute us, even before the investigation by the european anti-fraud office had begun. in violation of all principles of law and parliamentary practice, he did not even dare to hear us before making these accusations public. in breach of annex xi on internal investigations, and in particular article 2 (4) thereof, he has deliberately breached the confidentiality requirement imposed on him. in breach of article 5 of the same annex, he has breached his obligation to inform us. in violation of rule 2 (4), he is subjecting us to unfair and discriminatory treatment because if he wrongly considered that the position of parliamentary assistant was incompatible with political responsibilities within a party, he should be investigating all members and assistants, starting with his socialist friends, since a quick and superficial examination has already revealed nine assistants among his political friends who hold important political positions. in my 30 years as a member of parliament, i have never seen a speaker behave in such a partial and partisan way. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. ‒ while there are some positive aspects to this text, such as reasoned protectionism or safeguarding and surveillance measures, it is a timid first step towards protecting our industries and our products. any brake on ultra-liberalism and blind free trade is to be encouraged as it challenges a system in which nation states no longer have any freedoms. however, there are some weaknesses in this text. there is no mention of the national level or at least of the national freedom to promote national products. considering that the nation state is the only level capable of guaranteeing the proper economic functioning of a society, i could not vote in favour of this text. it is not enough to leave the union to protect european industries: it is essential to give member states priority on these issues and to leave them free to conduct their national economic policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is simply a codification of existing acts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ as i am opposed to this common regime for imports from certain third countries, i have logically voted against this report which promotes it.
in writing. this report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of 17 july 2009 establishing common rules for exports. the report updates the list of countries concerned by deleting those which have since become wto members. this regulation does bring more transparency and clarity in the light of european union law and recalls the possibilities for surveillance or safeguard measures against products from a limited number of third countries. however, it remains questionable, since it is closely linked to the fact that the union represents a vast internal market, a free trade area without borders, even though the number of customs barriers in many third countries to union exports is increasing. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the codification of council regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of 17 july 2009 establishing common rules for exports. this codification shall be made at constant rate without any change in the substance of the provisions which will be included therein. it updates the list of third states to which the regulation applies, by deleting those which have since acceded to the wto. although this regulation is questionable, since it recalls that the european union represents an internal market without frontiers, it is a measure of transparency and intelligibility of eu law. it also recalls the possibility of taking surveillance or safeguard measures against products from a limited number of third countries under certain conditions which we consider to be far too restrictive. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to adapt the legislation on the common rules applicable to imports from certain third countries to this new procedure. it is essential that the european parliament, directly elected by the citizens, be informed at all stages of this procedure and be able to enjoy its rights in this area. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which advocates the establishment of a common regime for imports from certain third countries. advocates of the text may argue that the introduction of such a common regime would increase the transparency and visibility of the rules. however, this is done within the framework of the overall project of harmonizing legislation, and therefore with a view to greater integration, which is a further attack on national sovereignty in the field of trade policy.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification in eu law of regulation no 625/2009 on the common rules for imports from certain third countries, as amended by the 'omnibus' procedure, which has brought a number of legislative proposals into line with the new secondary legislation rules laid down by the treaty of lisbon. the report also proposes to revise the same regulation with the addition of technical amendments and to update the annex in view of the accession of armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam to the world trade organisation. i support this text, which is limited to simple technical amendments without any real change in substance. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in accordance with the opinion of the parliamentary committee responsible for this report in the european parliament, i voted in favour of this text, which aims at a revision of the existing regulation on the common rules applicable to imports into the european union from certain third countries. the main change brought about by this revision is the updating of the annex, from which the countries that have become members of the world trade organisation, such as armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam, have been removed.
in writing. ‒ while there are some positive aspects to this text, such as reasoned protectionism or safeguarding and surveillance measures, it is a timid first step towards protecting our industries and our products. any brake on ultra-liberalism and blind free trade is to be encouraged as it challenges a system in which nation states no longer have freedom. however, there are some weaknesses in this text. there is no mention of the national level or at least of the national freedom to promote national products. considering that the nation state is the only level capable of guaranteeing the proper economic functioning of a society, we cannot vote in favour of this text. so i decided to vote against it. it is not enough to leave the union to protect european industries: it is essential to give member states priority on these issues and to leave them free to conduct their national economic policies.
in writing. ‒ while there are some positive aspects to this text, such as reasoned protectionism or safeguarding and surveillance measures, it is a timid first step towards protecting our industries and our products. any brake on ultra-liberalism and blind free trade is to be encouraged as it challenges a system in which nation states no longer have freedom. however, there are some weaknesses in this text. there is no mention of the national level or at least of the national freedom to promote national products. considering that the nation state is the only level capable of guaranteeing the proper economic functioning of a society, we cannot vote in favour of this text. so i decided to vote against it. it is not enough to leave the union to protect european industries: it is essential to give member states priority on these issues and to leave them free to conduct their national economic policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr jaroslaw walesa, which aims to codify an existing regulation on the common rules applicable to imports from certain third countries, particularly as regards textiles. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the revision of the regulation on the common rules applicable to imports into the european union from certain third countries (azerbaijan, belarus, north korea, kazakhstan, uzbekistan and turkmenistan), with the exception of textile products. this revision also updates the annex to the regulation listing the third countries concerned, from which the countries which have become members of the world trade organisation, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam, have been removed.
in writing. ‒ the walesa report proposes to adopt a codification of the rules on the common system for imports from certain third countries in the context of the union's trade policy and the harmonisation objectives set out in the lisbon treaty. i question the legitimacy and effectiveness of the union's action in this area, which is essentially a matter for the member states in the interests of their economies. the strengthening of the trade regulatory framework should only be undertaken if these measures are assessed and their impact clearly studied. i have voted against this report for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of 7 july 2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. this regulation empowers the commission to amend, suspend or repeal anti-dumping and/or countervailing measures or to adopt any other specific measure. i am opposed to the commission's interference in this area, and even though it is only a technical report, i am voting against it. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
in writing. the report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of 17 july 2009 establishing common rules for imports. this codification shall be made at constant rate without any change in the substance of the provisions which will be included therein. it updates the list of third states to which the regulation applies, by deleting those which have since acceded to the wto. although this regulation is questionable because it recalls that the european union is an internal market without frontiers, it is a measure of transparency and intelligibility of eu law. it also recalls the possibility of taking surveillance or safeguard measures against products from a limited number of third countries. however, i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text codifying and recasting council regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of 7 july 2009 on common rules for imports from certain third countries. the main aim is to make some technical changes to the wto and to update its annex by removing the countries which have become wto members in the meantime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it proposes beneficial amendments to the codification of the council regulation establishing a common system of import duties. it lightened and simplified the original text, and that is the direction that european legislation should take.
in writing. the report concerns the codification of council regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of 17 july 2009 establishing common rules for imports. this codification shall be made at constant rate without any change in the substance of the provisions which will be included therein. it updates the list of third states to which the regulation applies, by deleting those which have since acceded to the wto. it is a measure of transparency and intelligibility of eu law. it also recalls the possibility of taking surveillance or safeguard measures against products from a limited number of third countries. i decided to vote against this regulation because it is questionable, since it recalls that the european union is an internal market without frontiers, a principle i am opposed to.
in writing. ‒ at a time when trade between the european union and third countries is important, there is a need to strengthen the rules in place and update the procedures. i voted in favour of the amendments to the common arrangements for imports from certain third countries, namely coal and steel. the regulation contains safeguard and surveillance clauses which apply only to certain countries, namely azerbaijan, belarus, kazakhstan, north korea, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. another important change is that some countries, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam, have been removed from the annex as they have become members of the wto.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the recasting of council regulation (ec) no 625/2009 of 17 july 2009 establishing common rules for imports. this revision is being carried out in the interests of clarity and transparency of the law and follows an accelerated procedure in accordance with the interinstitutional agreements. it incorporates several substantive amendments to the regulation, which mainly concern technical corrections. the main change resulting from the revision is the updating of the annex, from which the countries which have become wto members in the meantime, namely armenia, russia, tajikistan and vietnam, have been removed. i supported this text, which is part of the desire to simplify and make the law more transparent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical report, which is limited to a codification of existing acts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the european economy already seems to us far too vulnerable with an openness rate of 85%, compared to 20% in the united states for example to allow for further relaxation of the rules applicable to imports from third countries. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and montenegro has not put an end to the important underground economy in this country, where the trade in cigarettes is particularly important. this traffic is the result of an agreement between montenegro and the union which requires montenegro to move away from serbia. in return, the union agrees to show a certain laxity, particularly in relation to cigarette trafficking. this consolidation report is a step towards montenegro's accession to the union, which is why i opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which is aimed at preparing for further enlargement: we have nothing to gain from it.
in writing. this report consists of a stabilisation and association agreement for the future accession of montenegro to the european union. on 29 june 2012, the european council approved the opening of negotiations for the accession of montenegro to the union. it is unfortunate that montenegro still has serious problems of corruption, press freedom and the underground economy. the idea of an indefinite enlargement of the union is a heresy that will in no way lead to its prosperity. i therefore voted against this agreement.
in writing. i voted against this text. the purpose of the proposal is to codify certain procedures for the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and montenegro. the proposed new regulation would replace the various acts incorporated therein; it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups them together by making only the formal changes required by the actual codification operation. the main provisions codified provide, inter alia, that fishery products originating in montenegro may be imported into the union, within the limits of the tariff quotas, at reduced customs rates.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. this is also a consolidation of the earlier provisions. it consists of a stabilisation and association agreement with a view to montenegro's future accession to the european union. the regulation provides, for example, that fishery products originating in montenegro may be imported into the union at reduced customs rates. on 29 june 2012, the european council approved the opening of negotiations for the accession of montenegro to the union. because i am opposed to the very principle of the association agreement with montenegro, i voted against this text of codification which is intended to prepare the forthcoming accession of montenegro to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of codification is to simplify and make european legislation more accessible. it is a kind of compilation of different european regulations dealing with the same subject. i voted in favour of the report on the codification of the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of montenegro.
in writing. ‒ being opposed to the very principle of this type of ultra-liberal gasoline association agreement, which binds the signatory state, as well as the member states, in a number of areas which should continue to be part of the royal prerogatives (public policies, foreign policy, economic, political and legal system), i could only vote against this proposal for a regulation. the text provides for the codification of the procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and montenegro, of the other part. in addition, the association agreement provides in particular that fishery products originating in montenegro may be imported into the union at reduced customs rates. this is a measure which endangers our fishing industry, even though montenegro is not a member state and should therefore be subject to the regulatory customs duties.
in writing. this report concerns the codification in european union law of regulation (ec) no 140/2008 concerning certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. this regulation provides in particular that fishery products originating in montenegro may be imported into the union, within the limits of the tariff quotas, at reduced customs rates. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any substantive changes. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the text on which the european parliament is called upon to give its opinion is the subject of a broad consensus. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is brought under control. it is limited to a simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal which codifies the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the republic of montenegro. the agreement did not put an end to the country's important underground economy, where the cigarette trade is particularly important. this traffic is the result of an agreement between montenegro and the european union, in which the balkan state agrees to break with serbia if the union does not show too much eye on the traffic of cigarettes, among others. the european union is therefore partly responsible for the proliferation of the underground economy in montenegro.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification in european union law of regulation (ec) no 140/2008 concerning certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. this regulation provides in particular that fishery products originating in montenegro may be imported into the union, within the limits of the tariff quotas, at reduced customs rates. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any change in substance. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this text once again targets agricultural producers and fishery products by allowing products from montenegro, already low-cost thanks to a low-paid labour force, to benefit from reduced customs rates. the division in this house is not between the left and the right, but between the ultra-liberals, who are in favour of a world without frontiers, in defiance of the peoples, and the patriots, who defend the sovereignty of the states and therefore of the producers. i therefore vote against this text which will once again weaken our producers and their families.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal which codifies, without changing the substance, the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the republic of montenegro. i note that the union's interference in the internal affairs of that country goes so far as to teach the opposition parties lessons so that they can concentrate on the country's accession to the european union. this is also nato's interference, since all eu member states which are also nato members are asked to actively support montenegro's accession to this organisation, in order to 'strengthen the stability of the region'.
in writing. ‒ this text on montenegro's progress towards accession calls for some general reflections on my part, which also apply to similar texts on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and serbia. firstly, the opening of accession negotiations is increasingly taking place in breach of the copenhagen criteria, which set out the minimum economic, legal and administrative requirements to be met by candidates. brussels is bulimic: its power must extend over a continent whose geographical, let alone cultural and demographic, boundaries it refuses to define. secondly, accession to the european union does not only imply the substitution of european regulations for the national laws of the candidate countries, but also the abandonment of political specificities, especially diplomatic ones, such as their centuries-old relations with russia. these countries are chasing a decoy. they sell their freedom for the lentil dish of european funds. but the european union is increasingly a prison for peoples and nations. it is not a place of prosperity; it aspires to blend into a global governance that is at best americanized, at worst faceless. that is why i voted against all these texts: i cannot wish others the fate i refuse for my own country.
in writing. ‒ once again, the european union wants to impose its standards and political system on a third country, even though it is not a member. i voted against the adoption of this monitoring report on montenegro, considering that the union should not be handing out the good and bad points, nor should it interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign state by recommending the setting up of propaganda campaigns aimed at 'changing mentalities'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of montenegro. in line with the effort to simplify european law, the aim here is to codify a number of existing provisions on the same subject, in order to integrate them into a single, clearer and simpler text. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to codify the council regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and montenegro. in the interests of clarity and transparency, the procedure known as official codification of legislative texts makes it possible to merge all the amendments and revisions to a text without altering its substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which proposes to accept the codification of developments in a text which is part of the union's neighbourhood and integration policy, a questionable and poorly developed strategy. the strengthening of the regulatory framework, in particular the tariff concessions in the fisheries sector, is also unacceptable without regular and thorough monitoring of the economic impact of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this agreement because it paves the way for montenegro's future membership of the european union. the situation in montenegro is catastrophic economically and socially and will be a burden for us. i am, in any case, hostile in principle to any new accession to the union.
in writing. - i vote against it. the european union is continuing to prepare for enlargement to include other countries. the economic situation of the member states is delicate and it seems dangerous to prepare for the accession of other countries. this will is reflected in the obligation to respect the dogmas to which montenegro is forced to adhere, ranging from diplomatic decisions of the european union to the promotion of sexual diversity. it should be noted that some sectors of the country's economy receive funding from the european union. this is the case in its agricultural sector, whose products, as well as those of the other applicant countries which receive the same funding, are likely to compete with our own. the specific case of fishery products in this dossier, with the plan to facilitate their import into the european union, is a worrying provision.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this stabilisation agreement. the aim of this agreement is to codify certain procedures for the future accession of the republic of montenegro to the european union, the next stage in the union's obsession with integration.
in writing. ‒ codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. it should be remembered that the association agreements are intended to impose free trade with the countries concerned. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. so even if it is only a technical report, i am voting against.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. this is also a consolidation of the earlier provisions. it consists of a stabilisation and association agreement with a view to montenegro's future accession to the european union. on 29 june 2012, the european council approved the opening of negotiations for the accession of montenegro to the european union. the indefinite enlargement of the union is a scandal, and even if it is only a measure of transparency, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the codification of the council regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. this regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that some of its provisions are now to be found in the original act and the rest scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the proposal in question is limited to a straightforward codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 140/2008 of 19 november 2007 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part. this is also a consolidation of the earlier provisions. it consists of a stabilisation and association agreement with a view to montenegro's future accession to the european union. on 29 june 2012, the european council approved the opening of negotiations for the accession of montenegro to the union. the indefinite enlargement of the eu is a scandal, and even if it is only a measure of transparency, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the union has concluded several stabilisation and association agreements with several balkan states, including montenegro. these agreements are part of a perspective of rapprochement, rather than enlargement. parliament voted in favour of the text on the procedures for applying the agreement concluded between the union and montenegro. i myself voted in favour of this proposal. however, i reiterate my wish to establish a moratorium of five to ten years for any new accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of montenegro. it was necessary to approve the commission's proposal, which incorporated the recommendations of the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the proposal is thus limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical report, which is limited to a codification of existing acts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify regulation (ec) no 140/2008 concerning the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and montenegro and to specify the conditions for its implementation. the agreement provides in particular that fishery products originating in montenegro may be imported into the union, within the limits of tariff quotas, at reduced customs rates. i am opposed to this text because i do not want to see our fishermen subjected to unfair competition by the union, and by a country which is not ready for accession.
in writing. ‒ once again, a report that requires montenegro to adopt a regime and political system dictated by the european union, which poses as a schoolteacher who would distribute the good and bad points. the european parliamentarians are dictating to the parliament of montenegro how it should conduct its political and legislative work! we are against this abhorrent interference in the national affairs of other sovereign states.
in writing. ‒ the codification of the developments in the regulation on the union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methael and soles, dressing and other residues is part of the strengthening of the regulatory framework which opens up the european market to foreign products and is one of the elements of the union's passive trade policy. the excessive import of foodstuffs such as meat is damaging the activity of european producers when it should be protected, especially in this period of economic crisis. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which favours the importation of foodstuffs into the european union. this is obviously against the interests of european farmers, and particularly french farmers, whose dramatic situation concerns me more than ever.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for highquality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methylated maize and for soya, rye and other residues. this regulation, which is being codified, facilitates the importation into the european union of the abovementioned products by opening tariff quotas. if this text is merely a codification without any substantive changes, i am opposed to this european desire for free trade and the abolition of all customs tariffs. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against this proposal for a regulation on the union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methylated and bran, germ and other residues. on the one hand, trade policy must remain the exclusive competence of the member states. on the other hand, i am against the european union granting tariff quotas to third countries. these facilitate imports which compete with our various sectors. we must protect our agriculture.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for highquality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and mes­tel and for soya, rye and other residues. this is a measure to simplify, clarify and make union law more accessible. this codification follows the conclusion of an agreement on concessions and tariff quotas on the basis of article 31 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union relating to certain specific products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ one of the wishes of european legislators is to make european legislation simpler and more accessible so that it can be applied as effectively as possible. one way of achieving this is through codification. i voted in favour of this report on the codification of tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and mes­tel and for soot, slag and other residues.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is about encouraging the import of foodstuffs within the european union. this is nonsense when we know that in 2014, according to insee, crop production brought in 201,025 million euros and animal production 168,047 million euros. the european union is therefore self-sufficient in its agricultural production and facilitating imports would only lead to weakening our industries and our farmers. a proposal which therefore follows ultra-liberal dogma rather than pursuing the interests of the peoples of europe.
in writing. the proposed new regulation on the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methael and bran, germ and other residues is only intended to replace the various acts incorporated therein. it is limited to a simple codification of existing texts, and it remains faithful to the content of the grouped texts. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the codification of the developments in the regulation on the union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methael and soles, dressing and other residues is part of the strengthening of the regulatory framework which opens up the european market to foreign products and is one of the elements of the union's passive trade policy. the excessive import of foodstuffs such as meat is damaging the activity of european producers, which must be protected, especially in times of crisis. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification in european union law of regulation no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methylated maize and for bran, germ and other residues. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any change in substance. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - sad day for farmers, and especially for livestock farmers in our countries. instead of taking measures to support our farmers, who are already facing serious difficulties, the european union prefers to disregard the excellence of our agriculture by 'facilitating' the import of so-called high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat and wheat. as a proud supporter of our farmers, i am voting against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this regulation. it grants exceptional customs duties to third countries which, in addition to facilitating imports and thus competing with our farmers, do not necessarily comply with the health and environmental standards required in principle by the european union. finally, the european union is not very concerned about third countries respecting the principle of reciprocity with regard to our own exports to their market.
in writing. ‒ the codification of the developments in the regulation on the union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methael and bran, germ and other residues strengthens the regulatory framework opening the european market to foreign products and thus constitutes an element of the passivity of the union's trade policy. the excessive importation of foodstuffs such as meat is damaging the activity of european producers, which we must protect, especially in times of crisis and economic recession. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on the opening and administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methylated products and for soils, dressings and other residues. it sets up tariff quotas for the various products in accordance with the number of tonnes imported and makes it possible to control the quality of the imported products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which codifies the council regulation opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methylated maize and for soils, dressings and other residues. the proposed regulation replaces the various acts incorporated in it. it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups it together, making only the formal changes required by the actual codification process.
in writing. ‒ the codification of the developments in the regulation on the union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methael and bran, germ and other residues is part of the strengthening of the regulatory framework which opens the european market to foreign products and which is one of the elements of the passivity of the union's trade policy. the excessive import of foodstuffs such as meat is damaging the activity of european producers, which must be protected, especially in times of crisis. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this because it favours the import of foodstuffs into the european union, whereas our livestock farmers and our farmers are already suffering terribly from this unfair competition.
in writing. - against this position. the european union is constantly opening up its market to non-eu products, while many products compete with the agricultural products of the member states. french farmers are very concerned about the increasing competition. we reject any policy which will make this situation worse and this project contributes to the worsening of the fragility of our agriculture.
in writing. ‒ vote against these tariff quotas. this text favours the import of foodstuffs into the european union, with all the consequences this may have for european production. moreover, the text does not add anything to the substance.
in writing. ‒ codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for highquality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and mes­tel and for soya, rye and other residues. this regulation delegates to the commission the power to amend the volumes or other conditions of the quota after a decision by the council. i am opposed to the commission's interference in this area, and even though it is only a technical report, i am voting against. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for highquality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and mes­tel and for soya, rye and other residues. this is a measure to simplify and clarify union law and to improve the accessibility of the law. this codification follows an agreement on concessions and tariff quotas based on article 31 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union relating to certain specific products. i am firmly opposed to the free-trade approach of granting preferential or even zero customs tariffs on certain quantities of agricultural products, even though this text is merely a codification, without any substantial change in substance. that is why i am voting against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the codification of the council regulation opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methylated maize and for soils, dressings and other residues. this regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that some of its provisions are now to be found in the original act and the rest scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the proposal in question is limited to a straightforward codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 774/94 of 29 march 1994 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for highquality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and mes­tel and for soya, rye and other residues. this is a measure to simplify and clarify union law and to improve the accessibility of the law. this codification follows an agreement on concessions and tariff quotas based on article 31 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union relating to certain specific products. i am firmly opposed to the free-trade approach of granting preferential or even zero customs tariffs on certain quantities of agricultural products, even though this text is merely a codification, without any substantial change in substance. that is why i am voting against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the rules on exports and imports of food products, in particular, in this case, high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and methylated and bran, germ and other residues, the european parliament voted on a text on the opening and management of tariff quotas for these products. i have spoken in favour of this text and stress the importance of legislation in the regulation of tariff quotas for foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council opening and providing for the administration of certain union tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat (wheat) and methylated maize and for soils, dressings and other residues. this is a commission proposal which incorporates the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the proposal is thus limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical report, which is limited to a codification of existing acts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the codified regulation, by opening tariff quotas, facilitates the importation into the european union of high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and methylated and bran, germ and other residues. i am opposed to this in order to protect the health of consumers and to protect our farmers from social dumping which will endanger our food independence.
in writing. ‒ the regulation opens tariff quotas and facilitates the import into the european union of high-quality beef, pork, poultry, wheat and methalates and of bran, germ and other residues rather than supporting very high-quality domestic sectors. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ turkey has introduced a 100% tax on imported livestock for two years, a tax which directly affects french farmers. today, the rise in the price of turkish beef makes french exports possible again, but exports to turkey are still subject to inspections by turkish officials of french slaughterhouses. such conditions are unacceptable, especially since the text envisages the establishment of 'a preferential regime applicable to the importation of agricultural products originating in turkey' to the detriment of european agriculture. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. - because i am opposed to turkey's accession to the european union - which the eurocrats still hope to impose on the europeans - and because i am very concerned about the dramatic situation facing our farmers, i voted against this report.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey. the products imported from turkey therefore benefit from preferential treatment. this system opens up our markets, which have been hit hard by the crisis, by the rise in the cost of raw materials, by the burden, by unfair competition and by the russian embargo, to more and more imports from turkey, a country with lower production costs and more flexible standards. the prerogative of foreign trade and customs barriers must in my view be a matter for the states to decide and that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted against this report, as i did in the legal affairs committee last december. the consolidating text 'established the preferential arrangements applicable to the importation of agricultural products originating in turkey'. we must adopt a clear and frank position on the status of turkey vis-à-vis the european union, which we are very politely allowing to hope in vain to join this collective hysteria. let us dare to tell them that the peoples of europe do not want their country to be integrated into the european union. even the founding fathers of this "machine" did not imagine it. thus, when asked about the frontiers of this europe, robert schuman's answer was unequivocal: "as long as there are churches"... it is important to protect our trade borders, especially in the agricultural sector, because this sector is in great danger in france and in europe. let us not give in to the sirens of free trade.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey. the regulation grants preferential treatment to imports of turkish agricultural products. the proposal lays down 'uniform conditions for implementing this scheme, by conferring on the commission the implementing powers exercised'. i strongly oppose any preferential agreement between the union and turkey which would result in unfair competition with our farmers, and i strongly oppose the commission's implementing powers, which should not replace the member states in their trade policy towards third countries. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ simplifying and making european legislation more accessible is one of the objectives of european legislators. codification serves this purpose and allows the compilation of the legislative texts dealing with the same subject. i voted in favour of the report on the codification of the import into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which provides for the codification of a preferential regime applicable to the import of agricultural products originating in turkey. in addition to the fact that the european union is self-sufficient in agricultural production, unfair competition from turkish production to our agri-food industry would be against the interests of our fellow citizens. moreover, we cannot accept the import of turkish products, even though turkey has been applying a ban on the import of certain of our products, including beef, since 1996. in this context, there is no question of applying a preferential regime without any reciprocity.
in writing. i have approved the european commission's proposal on this report on the main codified provisions concerning the preferential arrangements applicable to imports into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. the proposal is limited to a simple codification of the existing texts, and does not in any way alter their content.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. i note in particular that turkey has for the past two years introduced a 100% tax on imported livestock, a tax which directly affects french farmers. today, the rise in the price of turkish beef is making french exports possible again, but nothing has been done yet, because our exports to turkey are still subject to inspections by turkish officials of french slaughterhouses. such conditions are unacceptable, especially since the text envisages the introduction of 'a preferential regime for the importation of agricultural products originating in turkey' to the detriment of european agriculture.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification in european union law of regulation no 779/98 on the import of agricultural products originating in turkey, which has been substantially amended on several occasions. the proposal for a regulation lays down uniform conditions for implementing the arrangements applicable to imports into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey, by conferring implementing powers on the european commission. i support this text, which is merely an exercise in codifying positive law without any substantive changes. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ while turkey is increasingly misbehaving towards eu member states such as cyprus, while its increasingly murky game is being revealed in syria, and while the erdogan system is totally indifferent to the most basic freedoms, the european parliament, lying down before the commission, is considering how to stamp out the trade preference for turkey. if the turkish people, which has followed the example of ataturk and has become a people capable of secularism and freedom, remains and will always remain a friendly people, there can be no question of any satisfaction with the accession process which this debate, like many others, is designed to carry forward with its face covered. moreover, in the context of the present suffering of our farmers, this text is a real provocation. for all these reasons, sovereigntists and opponents of euro-globalist federalism oppose such a deliberation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. i note in particular that turkey has for the past two years introduced a 100% tax on imported livestock, a tax which directly affects french farmers. today, the rise in turkish beef prices makes french exports possible again, but nothing has been done yet, because our exports to turkey are still conditional on inspections of french slaughterhouses by turkish officials.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. i note in particular that turkey has for the past two years introduced a 100% tax on imported livestock, a tax which directly affects french farmers. today, the rise in the price of turkish beef is making french exports possible again, but nothing has been done yet, because our exports to turkey are still subject to inspections by turkish officials of french slaughterhouses. such conditions are unacceptable, especially since the text envisages the introduction of 'a preferential regime for the importation of agricultural products originating in turkey' to the detriment of european agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. in the context of the effort to simplify european law, the aim is to codify a number of existing provisions on the same subject, in order to integrate them into a single, clearer and simpler text. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to codify the council regulation on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. in the interests of clarity and transparency, the procedure known as official codification of legislative texts makes it possible to merge all the amendments and revisions to a text without changing its substance.
in writing. ‒ the set of trade measures and arrangements for building a trade area with turkey, in particular through preferential arrangements for the import of agricultural products originating in turkey, is an essential part of the political integration process with the union. the consolidation advocated by the report before us is helping to strengthen and update this regulatory framework, which i oppose; that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it confirms the 'preferential regime' enjoyed by turkey for the importation of its agricultural products into the union. i am against this preferential treatment because it opens the way to unfair competition, which would be the victim of our farmers. in addition, there is no reason to give gifts to a state which encourages illegal maritime immigration into the union and shows leniency towards the 'islamic state'.
in writing. - against this report. once again, the european union is not listening to the concerns of farmers in the member states. as a french farmer, i listen to my colleagues who are tired of seeing the european market open to agricultural products. the regulation provides for preferential treatment for imports of agricultural products originating in turkey. we reject that decision. on the contrary, it is urgent to apply strong import restrictions in order to protect our agriculture. the european union is pursuing an illogical policy of supporting agriculture which is weakening the member states' agriculture.
in writing. - i vote against this regulation. the amendment is a change of form and not of substance and establishes 'the preferential arrangements applicable to the importation of agricultural products originating in turkey'. we are against this preferential treatment.
in writing. ‒ codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey. this regulation establishes a preferential regime applicable to imports into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey and confers implementing powers on the commission. i am opposed to the commission's interference in this area, and even though it is only a technical report, i am voting against. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey. it grants preferential treatment to imports of turkish agricultural products. the proposal lays down 'uniform conditions for implementing this scheme, by conferring on the commission the implementing powers exercised'. i am firmly opposed to any preferential agreement with turkey and to any competence of the european union in the external trade of the member states, which should be their prerogative. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the codification of the council regulation on the importation into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey. this regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that some of its provisions are now to be found in the original act and the rest scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the proposal in question is limited to a straightforward codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 779/98 of 7 april 1998 on the import into the community of agricultural products originating in turkey. it grants preferential treatment to imports of turkish agricultural products. the proposal lays down 'uniform conditions for implementing this scheme, by conferring on the commission the implementing powers exercised'. i am firmly opposed to any preferential agreement with turkey and to any competence of the european union in the external trade of the member states, which should be their prerogative. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament recently adopted the revision, the various amendments and the accumulations of the various texts regulating the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. i voted in favour of this administrative arrangement in order to have a single, simpler and clearer text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. this is a commission proposal which incorporates the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the proposal is thus limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical report, which is limited to a codification of existing acts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the regulation being codified 'established the preferential arrangements applicable to the importation of agricultural products originating in turkey'. i am opposed to turkey's accession to the union and i cannot accept that it should enjoy facilities to export its agricultural products to our states, thus endangering local producers.
in writing. ‒ the regulation establishes a preferential regime applicable to imports of agricultural products originating in turkey. i voted against, of course.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to give priority to local production at the various levels national, european and then international. the suspension of certain import concessions would help to promote the agricultural production of the member states of the union. turkey has also imposed a ban on the import of live cattle and restrictions on the import of beef since 1996. while i respect this protectionist decision of a sovereign state, i would nevertheless like the principle of reciprocity to be applied and for the member states of the union to be able to exercise their right to defend their production, and in particular their agriculture. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ turkey has banned the import of live cattle since 1996 and restricted the import of beef. i therefore logically voted in favour of this report which proposes to 'counterbalance the situation by equivalent measures'.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 suspending certain concessions. although i dispute the prerogatives of the european union in relation to the external trade of the member states, this text seeks to impose the principle of reciprocity in our relations with turkey, which prohibits and restricts the import of certain categories of live cattle and beef from the union. this is contrary to paragraph 21 of the consolidated regulation and i therefore voted in favour of this suspension of concessions.
in writing. while we are happily opening our borders, 'since 1996 turkey has been implementing a ban on the importation of live cattle and restrictions on the importation of beef which are in total contradiction with the regulation which is the subject of this codification text. turkey is not respecting its commitments and is applying quantitative restrictions on beef imports, in contradiction with the agreement. i therefore voted in favour of these retaliatory measures in respect of actions which penalise our farmers and an entire sector of the agricultural world.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 suspending certain concessions. turkey has imposed bans and restrictions on the importation of live cattle and beef from the european union. if this text, which is merely a codification, is intended to impose on turkey a principle of reciprocity in its trade relations with the european union, we challenge the union's claim to any prerogatives in relation to the external trade of the member states. this report shows, if need be, that agricultural protectionism is a common practice in many sovereign states, requiring a rapid and effective response which the european union is unable to provide. it is therefore the member states' prerogative to enforce the principle of reciprocity. i voted in favour of this text, which is in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ codification of legislative texts is a kind of compilation of different european regulations that deal with the same subject. the aim is to simplify and make european legislation more accessible. i voted in favour of this report on the codification of the suspension of certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides for the suspension of certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. since 1996, turkey has banned the import of beef from the member states of the european union. in this context, it seems appropriate to suspend the preferential arrangements applicable to imports of turkish products into the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, the purpose of which was simply to codify the regulation on the suspension of certain concessions relating to the importation into the european union of agricultural products originating in turkey. the content of the various acts which have been incorporated into this new regulation has been preserved, so this report was not a problem, it was a simple administrative manoeuvre.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text for two reasons. the first is that we must give priority to local production, in france for the french, then at european level, and finally at international level. the suspension of certain import concessions would help our agricultural production. the second is that turkey has since 1996 imposed a ban on the importation of live cattle and restrictions on the importation of beef. i respect the protectionist decision of a sovereign state, but i would like to see the principle of reciprocity applied and that we in turn can exercise our rights to defend our production, and in particular our agriculture.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codification in eu law of regulation no 1506/98 suspending certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. i support this text, which is merely an exercise in codifying positive law without any substantive changes. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is an admission that, in addition to the recurring problems caused by the attitude of its government, which i have mentioned earlier, it must finally be acknowledged that turkey is not even playing the elementary fair game that you would expect from it in terms of trade in general and agricultural trade in particular. turkey is not the european commission: it knows how to defend its interests and does not necessarily give in to the oukases of globalism, except when it finds its own advantage in them. i shall be charitable then: i shall vote in favour of this resolution, but let me doubt whether it conceals your desire to move forward with the accession negotiations, and whether the pretext of the restrictions here criticised is merely a decoy in the face of your general attitude.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text for two reasons. the first is that we must give priority to local production, in france for the french, then at european level, and finally at international level. the suspension of certain import concessions would help our agricultural production. the second is that turkey has since 1996 imposed a ban on the importation of live cattle and restrictions on the importation of beef. while i respect this protectionist decision of a sovereign state, i nevertheless hope that the principle of reciprocity will be applied and that we in turn will be able to exercise our rights to defend our production, and particularly our agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on the suspension of certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. in the context of the effort to simplify european law, the aim is to codify a number of existing provisions on the same subject, in order to integrate them into a single, clearer and simpler text. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to codify the council regulation suspending certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. in the interests of clarity and transparency, the procedure known as official codification of legislative texts makes it possible to merge all the amendments and revisions to a text without altering its substance.
in writing. ‒ the codification of the text concerning the suspension of certain concessions on the import of live bovine animals improves the clarity of the regulatory framework, which ensures a certain balance in trade relations between turkey and the union. i voted in favour of this report, which supports one of the few realistic positions of the union on trade preferences.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it allows for retaliatory measures against turkey, which is guilty of applying quantitative restrictions on the import of our beef.
in writing. ‒ in favour of this initiative. the aim is to call into question a policy pursued by turkey concerning a quantitative restriction on imports of beef and veal, which is contrary to the regulation codified in point 21. we support the initiative to replicate this policy. it is time to defend our products against the unfair practices of countries financed by european funds.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin, on the other hand, voted in favour of this text. since 1996, turkey has applied quantitative restrictions on beef imports. this text will make it possible to counterbalance these restrictions with equivalent measures, which we support.
in writing. ‒ codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 establishing a concession for turkey in the form of a community tariff quota for hazelnuts. this regulation empowers the commission to abolish the measures suspending imports of products originating in turkey. i am opposed to the commission's interference in this area, and even though it is only a technical report, i am voting against. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 suspending certain concessions. turkey has imposed bans and restrictions on the importation of live cattle and beef from the european union. if this text, which is merely a codification, is intended to impose on turkey a principle of reciprocity in its trade relations with the european union, we contest any prerogatives held by the union in relation to the external trade of the member states. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the codification of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council suspending certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. this regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that some of its provisions are now to be found in the original act and the rest scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 1506/98 of 13 july 1998 suspending certain concessions. turkey has imposed bans and restrictions on the importation of live cattle and beef from the european union. if this text, which is merely a codification, is intended to impose on turkey a principle of reciprocity in its trade relations with the european union, we contest any prerogatives held by the union in relation to the external trade of the member states. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament recently adopted the revision, the various amendments and the accumulations of the various texts governing the suspension of certain concessions relating to imports into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. i voted in favour of this administrative arrangement in order to have a single, simpler and clearer text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council suspending certain concessions on the importation into the union of agricultural products originating in turkey. this is a commission proposal which incorporates the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the proposal is thus limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical report, which is limited to a codification of existing acts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ the gfcm, the regional fisheries management organisation, plays an active role in the development, conservation, management and exploitation of living marine resources in the mediterranean sea. following an evaluation of its performance, a procedure to amend the gfcm's constitutive text was launched. the new agreement clarifies its objectives and functions to enhance its effectiveness. it sets a clear overall objective: to ensure the sustainable use of resources from a biological, social, economic and environmental point of view. it also clarifies its functions, with the promotion of common fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of fisheries areas with regulated access, and the collection and dissemination of data. it integrates the main elements of the common fisheries policy, such as the objective of maximum sustainable yield, the ecosystem approach and respect for the precautionary principle, the reduction of discards, and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. because the sustainable use of marine biological resources in the mediterranean and the protection of the marine ecosystems that support them play a vital role in promoting blue growth and sustainable development, i support this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the effectiveness of this commission in protecting fisheries resources is not guaranteed. a proposal on certain provisions for fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species which is vital to the mediterranean ecosystem. however, the draft presented here is about the agreement itself and seems to have a clear objective of sustainable use of marine biological resources. we shall see if this agreement fulfils its promises. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the purpose of this text is to defend the interests of the development and good use of marine biological resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. it also fits into a global vision of conservation and sustainable use of marine biological resources and protection of marine ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ there are still doubts about the protection of fisheries resources by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. in january, for example, a proposal on certain provisions for fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species which is vital to the mediterranean ecosystem. the recommendation on which we were to vote seems to be more concerned with the sustainable use of marine biological resources. i was skeptical, so i refrained from speaking.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was established in 1919 and has been in operation since 1952. the commission's main objective is to promote the development, conservation and management of living marine resources. while these objectives are laudable, i would point out that there are still doubts about the actual protection of fishery resources by this commission (e.g. the proposal in january to facilitate fishing for red coral, an endangered species). however, the recommendation here is about the agreement itself and seems to be clearly aimed at the sustainable use of marine biological resources. in view of these facts, i abstained.
in writing. i abstained on the amendment of the agreement on the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), to which some eu members are also parties. the commission notes that the gfcm was established in 2013 by the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) and the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) signed in brussels on 27 june 2013. i have reservations about the commission's ability to protect fisheries resources. the impact of these amendments will have to be assessed to determine whether the stated objectives have been achieved.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this recommendation is to accept, on behalf of the european union, the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the aim of this commission is to promote the management and development of marine resources in the mediterranean sea. however, even if the recommendation amends the agreement itself by promoting the sustainable use of fisheries resources, the effectiveness of this commission in protecting marine resources is questionable, as evidenced by the january 2015 proposal to promote the fishing of red coral, a species that is essential to the mediterranean sea ecosystem. that is why i abstained on the vote on this text.
in writing. - i preferred to abstain on this text. the report does indeed contain a plan with clear objectives for the sustainable use of marine biological resources; however, i remain cautious about such good intentions. in fact, last january a proposal on certain provisions relating to fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, a species which is under threat and whose disappearance would destabilise the entire mediterranean ecosystem. for this reason, i doubt the commission's ability to take good decisions on fisheries, as on many other subjects.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean is an organisation whose objective is to promote the development, conservation and enhancement of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea. i voted in favour of this report which seeks to extend the functions of this commission in order to protect the fisheries resources concerned. this includes the establishment of multiannual management plans, the establishment of fishing zones with regulated access and the creation of dispute settlement mechanisms. upstream and coordinated action will ensure the sustainability of marine species, which is one of the major challenges of the coming years from both a food security and biodiversity perspective.
in writing. ‒ the effectiveness of this commission in protecting fisheries resources is not guaranteed. a proposal on certain provisions relating to fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species which is vital to the mediterranean ecosystem. however, the draft presented here is about the agreement itself and seems to have a clear objective of sustainable use of marine biological resources. we shall see if this agreement fulfils its promises. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to authorize the conclusion of an amendment to the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), originally established and approved in 1949 by the conference of the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao). the amendment, approved in may 2014 at the 38th annual session of the gfcm, changes the structure and updates the content of the current agreement to bring it into line with modern fisheries management instruments. the amendment is intended to provide a better definition of the objectives of the gfcm and its sanctions and dispute settlement system, and to introduce elements adopted by the european union in the context of the latest reform of the common fisheries policy. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text because our mistrust is only growing due to the union's disillusionment and lies. the objective of this text is to ensure the sustainable use of marine biological resources in the mediterranean. but no credit can be given to the european authorities, who are no longer making the mediterranean 'mare nostrum' but a lake open to industrial fishermen from all over the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text amending the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the latter, set up in 1949, plays an active role in the conservation of fish stocks in the international waters of the mediterranean sea. the text will thus allow for better development and more sustainable use of marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas, and for greater protection of the marine ecosystems that harbour these resources.
in writing. ‒ a general fisheries commission for the mediterranean does not seem to be able to protect fisheries resources effectively. for example, many amendments to the provisions on fishing in the gfcm agreement area facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species. the aim of the draft presented to parliament seems to be the sustainable and respectful use of marine biological resources. i have chosen to abstain, pending the outcome of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr gabriel mato, which proposes to approve the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (an organisation whose objective is to promote the conservation and rational management of fish stocks in the mediterranean). the amendment of the agreement should make it possible to clarify the functions and objectives of the cgpm, thereby, in my view, enhancing the effectiveness of the organisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose role is to promote the development, conservation, management and exploitation of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas. the objectives, general principles and functions of the gfcm have been revised and extended to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of marine biological resources and their environment.
in writing. ‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean will be able to take over many cases, such as the red coral fishery, whose mismanagement has seriously damaged the mediterranean ecosystem and its fisheries resources. the guarantees of the effectiveness of the action of the general fisheries commission are not, however, sufficient for me to support this report. i therefore wished to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the mediterranean is a shared sea where the peoples living along the shores face each other and form a community of mutual interests. the fisheries resources are particularly threatened, particularly because of illegal fishing and pollution. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), an agency of the fao, was established by a protocol of agreement between states in 1952. the european community joined in 1998. the text specifies the objectives and functions of the gfcm in order to enhance its effectiveness in the conservation of fisheries resources and the fight against poaching. i vote for it.
in writing. the purpose of this recommendation is to accept, on behalf of the european union, the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the aim of the commission is to promote the management and development of marine resources. however, even if the recommendation amends the agreement itself by promoting the sustainable use of fisheries resources, the effectiveness of this commission in protecting marine resources is questionable, as evidenced by the january 2015 proposal to promote the fishing of red coral, a species that is essential to the mediterranean sea ecosystem. in view of these facts, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which authorises the amendment of the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the gfcm, which was established in 1949 and to which the european union acceded in 1998, aims to promote the development, conservation, management and exploitation of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas. the amendments to the agreement approved by parliament are as follows: clarification of the subject of the agreement, better definition of the functions of the cgpm, sanctions against parties who do not respect the agreement, implementation of a dispute settlement system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it calls on the council to act on the creation of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean by amending certain provisions and simplifying others. the text proposes a better definition of the functions and objectives of the cgpm, which will allow for a better system of sanctions.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was established in 1919 and has been in operation since 1952. the commission's main objective is to promote the development, conservation and management of living marine resources. while these objectives are laudable, i would point out that there are still doubts about the actual protection of fishery resources by this commission (e.g. the proposal in january to facilitate fishing for red coral, an endangered species). however, the recommendation here is about the agreement itself and seems to be clearly aimed at the sustainable use of marine biological resources. in view of these facts, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ global warming, the protection of the planet and sustainable development are the new challenges facing our societies today. the union has made a strong commitment to the member states to promote sustainable growth and protect the environment and natural resources. the union has also taken action to protect marine resources, which are under serious threat from intensive fishing. several marine species are in danger of extinction, so action is needed. with this in mind, the union set up the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) in 1949 to promote the development, conservation, management and exploitation of marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture. the european parliament voted in favour of changing the structure and organisation of this committee so that it can better respond to the current challenges and needs, which my region in particular needs. i am glad to have voted in favour of this text and i believe that the union must continue to act in this area and to preserve our living marine resources in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a regional fisheries management organisation whose role is to promote the development, conservation, management and exploitation of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas. i supported this report on the procedure for amending the text of the agreement launched in 2013 to clarify the objectives and functions of the gfcm and to enhance its effectiveness. in the end, an agreement was reached; it allows for a clearer explanation of the purpose of the agreement establishing the gfcm (ensuring the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine biological resources), a better definition of the gfcm's functions (promoting common fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of regulated fishing areas and the collection and dissemination of data), provisions for the imposition of sanctions and the establishment of dispute settlement mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which makes it possible to increase the effectiveness of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose role is to promote the development, conservation, management and exploitation of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas. it is composed of 23 countries: albania, algeria, bulgaria, cyprus, croatia, egypt, spain, france, greece, israel, italy, lebanon, libya, malta, monaco, romania, slovenia, syria, tunisia and turkey, as well as the european union and japan. the reform includes the definition of clear objectives to ensure the sustainable use of marine biological resources, a better definition of the functions of the gfcm and a review of sanctioning and dispute settlement procedures.
in writing. ‒ there are still doubts as to whether the protection of fisheries resources is a real objective of the union. last january, a proposal on certain provisions relating to fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species which is vital to the mediterranean ecosystem. however, the draft presented here is about the agreement itself and seems to set as a clear objective the sustainable use of marine biological resources. i shall abstain on this text but will remain vigilant as to its application.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the amendment to the 1949 agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the commission, which brings together 23 countries around the mediterranean, aims to organise the sustainable, social, economic and environmental exploitation of marine biological resources in the mediterranean. while fisheries policy has undergone many changes in 50 years, it was time to update this agreement by integrating new priorities such as maximum sustainable yield, the ecosystem approach, reducing discards and combating illegal fishing. i support the objectives of the gfcm, which should enable the mediterranean states to act in a concerted manner to tackle the problem of fisheries resources in the mediterranean. today, although we have very little data, we know that the situation of fish in the mediterranean is catastrophic. according to the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries, 95% of stocks are overexploited. the union will have to impose research programmes and make ambitious management proposals.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. there are still doubts about the protection of fisheries resources by this commission. last january, a proposal on certain provisions for fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species which is vital to the mediterranean ecosystem. however, the draft presented here is about the agreement itself and seems to set as a clear objective the sustainable use of marine biological resources. we shall see if this agreement fulfils its promises. the whole national front delegation abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the waiver of mr zagorakis' parliamentary immunity. the alleged offence has no connection with his status as a member of the european parliament, but is connected with his professional activity. the criminal proceedings do not therefore concern an opinion or a vote made by the member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, especially since the proceedings were initiated before he took up his duties as a member of the european parliament. the lifting of parliamentary immunity might seem justified, but would require more information to be given to parliamentarians so that they can make an informed decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, requested by the parliamentarian himself to answer for facts alleged against him when the former footballer was president of the paok thessaloniki football club.
in writing. this request for waiver of immunity concerns the prosecution of theodoros zagorakis for negligent injury and breach of safety obligations at the workplace of an employee of paok football club, of which he is the president and legal representative. the investigation began before the election and had no direct political connection or intent to harm the member in the political context, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the greek supreme court has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, due to an alleged offence. the facts alleged against him have no connection with his function as a member of the european parliament, since they began before his election to the european parliament and are not of a political nature, since they concern acts of negligent beating and injury suffered by an employee of the football club of which mr zagorakis is the legal representative. the request for waiver of immunity for the purpose of examination seems to me therefore justified and legal. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because theódoros zagorákis, a greek member of parliament, is being prosecuted in his country for negligent injury and failure to comply with safety obligations at the workplace. however, this alleged offence is unrelated to his status as a member of the european parliament: he is not being prosecuted for political opinion or voting. mr zagorakis is well-suited to his role as president of paok football club. in this context, it seemed only right to vote in favour of lifting his immunity.
in writing. ‒ as mr zagorakis is the subject of a criminal prosecution in greece, this is not a request for the waiver of immunity motivated by political intentions or concerning freely expressed personal opinions. in order to allow the greek judiciary to do its job, i voted in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity of mr zagorakis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague evelyn regner on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, made by the prosecutor at the greek supreme court, concerning his indictment for negligent injury and failure to comply with safety obligations following an accident at work in 2010 at the paok football club run by mr zagorakis. this report has been adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of mr theodoros zagorakis, submitted on 19 december 2014 by the deputy prosecutor of the greek supreme court.
in writing. ‒ as mr zagorakis is the subject of a criminal prosecution in greece, this is not a request for the waiver of immunity motivated by political intentions or concerning freely expressed personal opinions. in order to allow the greek judiciary to do its job, i voted in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity of mr zagorakis.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis. theodoros zagorakis, before becoming an mep for the epp, was the director of a football club in thessaloniki. he is accused of negligence and breach of safety standards at work following an accident at work suffered by one of the club's employees in may 2010. since theodoros zagorakis himself is asking for his immunity to be waived so that he can shed light on this matter, i cannot oppose it and i am voting in favour.
in writing. the greek supreme court has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, due to an alleged offence. the facts alleged against him have no connection with his function as a member of the european parliament, since they began before his election to the european parliament and are not of a political nature, since they concern acts of negligent beating and injury suffered by an employee of the football club of which mr zagorakis is the legal representative. the request for waiver of immunity for the purpose of prosecution therefore seems to me justified and legal. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of mr zagorakis' immunity in the interests of transparency in the activities of all members of our political family, and because that is the main interest in this case.
in writing. this request for waiver of immunity concerns the prosecution of theodoros zagorakis for negligent injury and breach of safety obligations at the workplace of an employee of paok football club, of which he is the president and legal representative. the investigation began before the election and had no direct political connection or intent to harm the member in the political context, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of lifting the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, in order to let the greek judiciary take its course in a case that has no connection with the status of theodoros zagorakis as a member of the european parliament, but rather with his term as president of the football club paok.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr sergei stanishev. the case concerning him is not directly connected with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, especially since he was already undergoing preparatory training before taking up his duties. the lifting of parliamentary immunity might seem justified but would require more information to be given to parliamentarians so that they can make an informed decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity of sergei stanishev, requested by the parliamentarian himself in response to the disappearance of secret documents when he was prime minister of bulgaria.
in writing. sergei stanishev, while prime minister of bulgaria between 2005 and 2009, is accused of losing seven documents containing information constituting state secrets. the investigation against mr stanishev began before he was elected to the european parliament and mr stanishev gave his written consent to criminal proceedings being brought against him, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the request for waiver of immunity here concerns sergei stanishev. the facts complained of relate to the period when mr stanishev was prime minister of bulgaria. he is accused of having misused seven documents of state secrecy during his term of office. as the events took place before he entered the european parliament and had no direct connection with his function as an mep, i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sergei stanishev. mr stanishev is accused of having lost, during the period between 4 november 2005 and 27 july 2009, seven documents containing information constituting state secrets within the meaning of the bulgarian law on the protection of classified information. however, apart from the fact that, in the context of the bulgarian criminal proceedings against him, mr stanishev accepted that his parliamentary immunity be waived, the alleged infringement has no direct or obvious connection with the performance by mr stanishev of his duties as a member of the european parliament and does not constitute an opinion or vote delivered by him in the exercise of those duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. finally, mr sergei stanishev was already receiving preparatory training long before his election to the european parliament and this training therefore has no connection with his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ as mr stanishev is the subject of a criminal prosecution in bulgaria, this is not a request for waiver of immunity motivated by political intentions or concerning freely expressed personal opinions. in order to allow the bulgarian judiciary to do its job, i voted in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity of mr stanishev.
in writing. ‒ the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr sergei stanishev is not based on any acts in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. a waiver of immunity would be justified if parliament had more information. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague andrzej duda on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sergei stanishev. this procedure, requested by the member concerned, is a formality to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the immunity of sergei stanishev, transmitted on 24 november 2014 by the prosecutor general of the republic of bulgaria, in connection with the judicial proceedings pending before the sofia city court.
in writing. ‒ as mr stanishev is the subject of a criminal prosecution in bulgaria, this is not a request for waiver of immunity motivated by political intentions or concerning freely expressed personal opinions. in order to allow the bulgarian judiciary to do its job, i voted in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity of mr stanishev.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the social democrat mp sergei stanishev. while he was prime minister of bulgaria from 2005 to 2009, he is suspected of having 'lost' documents classified as 'state secrets'. since sergei stanishev himself is asking for his immunity to be waived so that he can shed light on this matter, i cannot oppose it and i am voting in favour.
in writing. the request for waiver of immunity concerns sergei stanishev. the facts complained of relate to the period when mr stanishev was prime minister of bulgaria. he is accused of having misused seven documents of state secrecy during his term of office. since this happened before he entered the european parliament and had no direct connection with his function as an mep, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of mr stanishev's immunity in the interests of transparency in the activities of all members of the european parliament, and because that is the main interest in the matter.
in writing. sergei stanishev is accused of having lost seven documents containing state secrets while he was prime minister of bulgaria between 2005 and 2009. the investigation against mr stanishev began before he was elected to the european parliament and mr stanishev gave his written consent to criminal proceedings being brought against him, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of sergei stanishev, because the offence he is accused of was committed when he was prime minister of bulgaria and only in the context of that office. the criminal proceedings to be initiated against him are therefore in no way linked to his current mandate as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget. contrary to what is claimed in this report, it will not have any leverage effect as the union's outstanding amounts amount to eur 30 billion and the first budget line - agriculture - is gradually decreasing, without the european union planning any future investments. these broad budgetary guidelines give an indication of the financial difficulties which are likely to arise as a result of the union's policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rapporteur's resolution on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget, as it underlines in particular our strong commitment to the full implementation of the joint declarations on payment appropriations and payment schedule agreed between parliament, the council and the commission at the end of the 2015 budgetary procedure, and i believe that such implementation would demonstrate the real commitment of the three institutions to finding a solution to the problem of unpaid invoices.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which, despite a few fairly lucid paragraphs on the dysfunctions of the european union, calls for an ever-increasing increase in the union's already colossal budget.
in writing. the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget presented in this report are in line with your ideology of death for europe: more austerity, less public spending and more globalism. these trends are ultimately leading the european union to ever-less growth, ever-more unemployment and ever-more precariousness. according to the commission itself, austerity cost france 4.8 percentage points of gdp between 2011 and 2013, but under the guise of boosting investment, the union is bringing the european peoples to their knees. the juncker plan is just one more trick, and the hoped-for leverage effect will probably not be there. moreover, the union still accuses, at the end of 2014, 30 billion euros of being unpaid. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary guidelines for 2016 are a clear example of hypocrisy. the european union deplores the collapse of public investment, while legally organising the austerity that is responsible for it. on the other hand, the resolution welcomes the implementation of the juncker plan, whose leverage of 15% is overestimated. the 'growth and jobs pact' had a leverage of 6 and ended up with 2. it offers no new budgetary stimulus and does not meet the investment needs, estimated at 235 billion a year! the committee on budgets is also concerned about the plight of smes by praising the cosme programme, whereas their problem is more a result of the economic malaise inherent in the euro area. finally, while the commission is giving lessons on good management, the union's outstanding amounts amounted to €30 billion at the end of 2014. it is high time that member states were given back the full benefit of their fiscal sovereignty and that there was a radical change in economic policy so that our economies could return to growth. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the budgetary procedure for 2016 has started and parliament is drawing up its priorities for the year. the emphasis is on entrepreneurship, employment and investment. we have many goals and we must give ourselves the means to achieve them. the budget must respond to the needs of european citizens and thus help to finance all projects likely to bring growth and jobs to europe. we must honour the commitments we have made to our fellow citizens. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which gives the guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget of the european union. this report is nothing but the european parliament's acclamation of the submission of national budgets to the wishes of brussels. in this report the union pretends to deplore the collapse of public investment, while at the same time providing the legal provisions necessary for the introduction of austerity which, in fact, kills this same public investment. the commission itself has nevertheless acknowledged that austerity cost france 4,8 percentage points of gdp between 2011 and 2013. the estimated investment needs to revive economic activity amount to eur 235 billion per year. lessons in austerity will not revive the economy, especially when those lessons come from a european union that, at the end of december 2014, still had €30 billion in arrears.
in writing. this report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget, endorsed by the european parliament, sets out the main budgetary priorities that parliament wishes to see taken into account in the preparation of the 2016 annual budget. by proposing an approach based on job creation, business development and entrepreneurship, this report is moving in the right direction. these three components are undoubtedly key levers to support and amplify the recovery of growth in europe. in parallel with this reflection on the optimal use of european budgetary resources to promote the return to sustainable growth, the report once again underlines the need to tackle the problem of unpaid invoices decisively.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget and is therefore the first step in the budgetary procedure. i would like to support the main line advocated, namely giving priority to employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship, in particular by mobilising the union's financial programmes, which must be adequately resourced, and the investment plan presented by the european commission for infrastructure, education and research, as well as support for smes and medium-sized enterprises. the report also touches on the sensitive issue of the accumulated budgetary arrears in recent years and, consequently, the problem of compliance with the union's budgetary commitments and those of its main contributors, the member states. i believe that the commission should propose, in agreement with the council and parliament, concrete and lasting solutions to this recurring problem, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report after having tabled a number of amendments on key points in this first stage. these included rebalancing towards environmental and solidarity priorities. the horizon 2020 research programme, cosme, erasmus+, external and humanitarian aid, the energy transition and migration and asylum policies. the european union budget is essentially an investment budget, so we must defend forward-looking guidelines. the first is the fight against youth unemployment and their integration into the labour market. then there is the challenge of the energy transition. finally, there is the question of investment in the real economy. the union's budget, for lack of own resources, is already a 'weak' budget. we must ensure that it is not further undermined by the shortfalls in financing the juncker plan guarantee, the bulk of which must be provided by the eib. the recommendations made by parliament must be followed to the letter. this is a lesson i have learnt from the 2015 negotiations. the interinstitutional partnership must be strengthened, particularly on the issue of unpaid invoices from the previous cohesion programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted, along with 484 colleagues, on the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget. these guidelines are the first document of parliament in the context of the annual budgetary procedure and we approve the general orientation of the guidelines, with some changes that we would like to see by the time the budget is finalised and some reservations that do not call into question our vote at this stage. with the french socialist members we are advocating a rebalancing of priorities in favour of the environment and solidarity. research programmes, external and humanitarian aid, the energy transition, youth employment, and migration and asylum policies should be given particular attention. the first concerns the recurring payment crisis. the second is the question of the investment plan. we have been calling for this initiative for a long time to boost growth and employment. however, it must not be at the expense of programmes already in progress. finally, the reform of the union's own resources will have to be put in place in order to provide the european union with a budget worthy of the name.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget. contrary to what is claimed in this report, it will not have any leverage effect as the union's outstanding amounts amount to eur 30 billion and the first budget line - agriculture - is gradually decreasing, without the european union planning any future investments. these general budgetary guidelines allow us to begin to see the financial difficulties that are looming as a result of the union's policies. and to see that instead of being pragmatic, the eu leaders prefer to persist in their mistakes and not change their ways.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague josé manuel fernandes on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget of the european union. the text highlights the traditional priorities of the european parliament: employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship. the report also raises the need to settle the issue of the european union's outstanding payments at the end of the year, due to the lack of a sufficient budget. the report was adopted by a large majority, with 484 votes in favour, 188 against and 36 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget. the union budget is first and foremost an investment budget with a strong leverage effect. it is a means of stimulating growth, competitiveness and employment throughout the union. it has a real positive impact on people's daily lives, and it plays a key role in reducing disparities between european regions and ensuring that investment is made where it is needed most. budget 2016 provides for a 3e plan with jobs, enterprises and entrepreneurship, for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union. i welcome that vote.
in writing. ‒ while the report on the broad guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget partly focuses on the importance of meeting the union's financial commitments and its multiannual performance targets, it primarily attempts to justify the ambitions of the commission's investment plan as set out by president juncker. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the plan chapters thus reveal target sectors where the chances of success and sustainability of the targeted investments are reduced. moreover, the fact that the energy or transport sectors were chosen in particular and that the eligibility criteria for sme investments were vague reflects the desire to strengthen the single market in the union and open up network industries to competition on the one hand and the economic rationale of the commission on the other hand, which is likely to lead to financial confusion. the guidelines for the 2016 budget, as presented in the fernandes report, are therefore not acceptable from a political and economic point of view, and that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the parliament's guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget of the european union. it is a continuation of the hypocritical and ill-conceived logic of previous budget reports. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. he calls for the problem of unpaid bills to be "resolved without delay", even though his previous votes for the 2014 and 2015 budget cuts will exacerbate these unpaid bills. the five paragraphs in this report calling on the council to 'stop being incoherent' could therefore apply to parliament itself!
in writing. the budgetary guidelines for 2016 show a blatant hypocrisy. they consist in accepting the setting of budgets for the member states while being concerned about the economic consequences. the european union deplores the collapse of public investment, while legally organising the austerity that is responsible for it. on the other hand, the resolution welcomes the implementation of the juncker plan, whose leverage of 15% is overestimated. the 'growth and jobs pact' had a leverage of 6 and ended up with 2... it does not provide any new budgetary stimulus and does not meet the estimated investment needs of 235 billion a year! the committee on budgets is worried about the plight of smes by praising the cosme programme, when their problem is more the economic malaise inherent in the euro area. finally, while the cold bureaucratic monster of the european union is teaching lessons in good management, its outstanding debts amounted to €30 billion at the end of 2014. it is high time that the member states were given back the full enjoyment of their budgetary sovereignty! i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the guidelines for the eu budget in 2016, namely to focus on the 3 e's advocated by the european parliament: jobs, enterprises, entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it sets out convincing general objectives for the preparation of the 2016 budget, in particular by focusing on the 3 'e's' advocated by the european parliament: employment, enterprises and entrepreneurship. it also welcomed the juncker plan and the initiative to create a €315 billion investment potential in infrastructure, education, research and smes.
in writing. the budgetary guidelines for 2016 show a blatant hypocrisy. they consist in accepting the setting of budgets for the member states while being concerned about the economic consequences. the european union deplores the collapse of public investment, while legally organising the austerity that is responsible for it. on the other hand, the resolution welcomes the implementation of the juncker plan, whose leverage of 15% is overestimated. the 'growth and jobs pact' had a leverage of 6 and ended up with 2... it does not provide any new budgetary stimulus and does not meet the estimated investment needs of 235 billion a year! the committee on budgets is worried about the plight of smes by praising the cosme programme, when their problem is more the economic malaise inherent in the euro area. finally, while the union's cold, bureaucratic monster is teaching lessons in good management, its arrears amounted to €30 billion in 2014. it is high time that the member states were given back the full enjoyment of their budgetary sovereignty! i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the union budget is a central tool for defining the main directions the union should take and the areas on which it wishes to focus economically, socially and politically. the european parliament adopted the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget. i voted in favour of this text and i support the main points that were defended, namely promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by focusing on employment, smes and the integration of young people into the labour market. i would also like to reiterate my support for the structural funds and the investment funds to undertake long-term projects in europe in key sectors (energy, innovation, transport). finally, i welcome the juncker commission's investment plan and i believe that, if properly implemented, it will act as a real lever for growth in the union and will create many jobs.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the priorities for the eu budget for 2016. our objective is to encourage growth by supporting job creation, enterprises and entrepreneurship, to increase solidarity both with third countries and within the union itself, and to put european finances in order, including the reform of the union's own resources system. european solidarity should be enhanced, in particular through increased emergency humanitarian and development assistance, while supporting the recovery of growth with support for european funds to further encourage the creation of new businesses. finally, on the reform of the union's own resources system, it is again a question of calling for in-depth reforms of the system of resources financing the union budget, as part of the work of the high level group on own resources the monti group which will issue its final recommendations by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which lists the priorities of our parliament in the negotiations on the european budget for 2016. the european union is in a paradoxical situation: it is not allowed to run a deficit, but it is still carrying a growing backlog of payments, which amounted to almost eur 24.7 billion at the end of 2014. this is due to the constant discrepancy between commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. the member states are willing to commit european funds for research or infrastructure projects, but they refuse to pay the bills. parliament therefore urged the council to put an end to this slate and called for far-reaching reforms so that the union could finally have its own resources and no longer be dependent on the annual contributions of the member states. beyond this accounting problem, the report highlights the added value of the european budget to foster growth by supporting job creation, enterprises and entrepreneurship, encouraging the creation of start-ups, financing the youth employment initiative, promoting territorial cohesion and showing solidarity towards third countries.
in writing. ‒ a large majority of the european parliament (ep) voted in favour of this report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 eu budget, while stressing the difficulties facing the multiannual budget 2014-2020, which the majority adopted without calling into question the budget cuts in the member states. other problems are raised, such as the impact of tax fraud and evasion on national budgets, but there is no real will to change things and propose concrete measures, except to throw the ball back to the council and the member states by asking them to stop their budgetary inconsistency... the overall approach remains the same. europe must be put back on track, notably through the three e's - jobs, enterprise and entrepreneurship - and support for the juncker investment plan, whose limits are already widely known. in the gue/ngl we know that only a fundamental re-examination of the austerity policies can stop the recession in which the european union is locking itself up, by calling for an end to social and fiscal dumping, a policy of re-industrialisation, relocation measures, and real support for energy and ecological transitions, which are capable of creating jobs. i therefore voted against this report, which is contrary to the measures and decisions to be taken.
in writing. the 2013 annual report on the protection of the union's financial interests recalls that the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering must be a priority for the institutions and the member states. however, i abstained on this report because the means used to combat fraud in the allocation of european funds are still insufficient. the report stresses that the current lack of results in the fight against fraud is due to the non-application of existing regulations. some member states are to blame for not providing accurate data on the irregularities affecting them. there is also a growing concern about the diversion of aid by certain countries. the report calls for the creation of a european public prosecutor's office to deal with cases of fraud, but its effectiveness is questionable, even if it undermines national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the fight against fraud, money laundering and corruption must be a priority for the european institutions and the member states. in 2013, 1 609 irregularities were reported as fraudulent, representing a total of eur 309 million of union funds. i welcome the fact that several amendments by my colleague, mr louis aliot, calling for the use of the european budget in the most complete transparency and in full accordance with the interests of the citizens of the member states of the union, have been included in the report. but i regret that the means used to combat fraud in the allocation of european funds are still insufficient. the report also calls for the creation of a new supranational body - the european public prosecutor's office - which i oppose. for these reasons, i have decided to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering in the union must be a priority of the political action of the community institutions, and police and judicial cooperation between the member states is therefore fundamental.
in writing. ‒ although several amendments tabled by louis aliot calling for the european budget to be used in the most complete transparency and in full accordance with the interests of the citizens of the union have been included in this report, i have chosen to abstain because the means implemented to combat fraud in the allocation of european funds remain insufficient. i particularly regret the increase in the misappropriation of aid by newcomers to the union. and although some of the proposals are in the right direction, i am opposed to the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, which could be a serious obstacle to the judicial sovereignty of our states.
in writing. the pirinski report once again demonstrates that the european union, so prone to criticism, is the victim of many frauds and irregularities. some €309 million was diverted, more than half of it for social cohesion policy alone, mainly by eastern european countries such as romania, bulgaria, poland and the czech republic. however, italy is the country that is the biggest abuser of eu funds, with €68.5 million embezzled in 2013. finally, the pre-accession funds are also the subject of a great deal of fraud. if we all agree that the fight against fraud is a priority, because we must have honest and sound management of public accounts, only the member states should decide to detect them and not a european prosecutor. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report shows that fraud is a sad reality in the use of eu funds. thus, almost eur 309 million was diverted, of which an exorbitant part (eur 156 million) was diverted under the social cohesion policy. the detection of such fraud points to romania, bulgaria, the czech republic and poland, which account for almost 40% of total fraud in the spending of european funds, while italy tops the list with almost €68.5 million embezzled. the fraud is firstly a consequence of the technocratic nature of the union's institutions, as well as of insufficient administrative capacity in some member states in the use of european funds. these fraudulent irregularities also affect non-member countries, particularly in the context of pre-accession aid (cohesion fund). while deterrent policies and the fight against fraud must be strengthened, for example by protecting whistleblowers, any creation of a european public prosecutor's office, which would jeopardise the principle of subsidiarity in criminal prosecutions, should be rejected. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ every year, the european commission publishes a report on the protection of the european union's financial interests. this report focuses in particular on the measures taken by the member states to counteract fraud against european funds. in response to this report, the european parliament also publishes its own report on the subject. i voted in favour of this report, which puts the emphasis on the fight against corruption in the member states. european funds are set up to help member states, regions and european citizens maximise their potential for growth and job creation and to reduce inequalities within the union. we must all work for the sound management of these funds at all levels of governance.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report which, although it makes the right diagnosis, is wrong in the remedies to be applied. the report stresses that the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering must remain a priority for the institutions and the member states. i can only agree with this text on this point. however, when it comes to detecting malfunctions in the procedures for reporting counterfeiting and smuggling, the member states are the main culprits, and the solution would once again be 'more europe': the report welcomes the creation of the anti-fraud coordination service (afcos). however, the member states are being criticised for their differences, as the report itself admits, for example in the number of fraudulent irregularities, which are dealt with by the member states according to their particularities. because i am in favour of a realistic approach, i congratulate my colleague louis aliot, who has managed to incorporate in this report amendments favourable to the quality of information for our citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the commission's actions in the fight against fraud and highlights in particular the significant increase in the number of threats resulting from non-compliance with the rules and from intentional infringements or criminal acts. in the agricultural sector, it appears that member states have at present recovered only 15% of irregular sums collected and that there are still significant differences in budget implementation between member states. in the context of the last reform of the common agricultural policy, for which i was one of the rapporteurs, it was decided to grant greater flexibility to the member states in the implementation of the agricultural policy and to allow the transfer of funds between the first and second pillars. however, this flexibility should not be at the expense of budgetary monitoring and evaluation systems. i therefore support the idea that the european commission can align the simplification programme in preparation with the dg agri's anti-fraud strategy and maintain a necessary balance between simplification and the proper management of eu funds. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. at a time when member states are being asked to make increasing efforts to improve their budgetary capacity, it is essential to optimise the management of european funds. the publication of the european commission's 2013 annual report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union is therefore of particular importance. the european parliament, for example, in its own report, expresses concern about an overall increase of 17% in the number of irregularities in 2013 compared to the previous year, although the amount of irregularities decreased by 36%. the european parliament report also raises some concern about the 76% increase in the number of so-called fraudulent irregularities concerning union expenditure, as well as an extremely low recovery rate in fraud cases (23.4%) compared to recent years. the european commission, in close coordination with the member states, must propose actions to remedy these shortcomings in the management of european funds for the benefit of our citizens and in the interests of sound public money management.
in writing. ‒ on 11 march 2015, the european parliament adopted a report on the protection of the interests of the european union and the fight against fraud. i support this report, which encourages the european commission to come forward swiftly with a legislative proposal on the protection of whistleblowers and provides a new set of recommendations to fight corruption and fraud in the union more effectively. it is essential that the union protects those persons who, by transmitting confidential documents, shed light on crucial revelations of public interest. the commission and the member states must be aware that transparency remains the best tool to prevent any misuse of european funds.
in writing. ‒ the liberalisation of the capital market, which was foreseen in the single european act, has opened up gaps which the commission now intends to fill. from deregulation in control, the snake bites its own tail, but the deregulation is always one step ahead. as an example, i could mention the practices of mcdonald's, which avoids paying millions of euros in taxes in europe by transiting through luxembourg, a member state of the union. the european central bank's quantitative easing programme, i.e. the repurchase of eur 1 140 billion of debt by the central banks of the eurozone countries, began on monday. this huge sum is injected into the financial sphere, with the hope that it will then boost the economy, by a cascading phenomenon. i therefore abstained because, despite the relevant amendments, this text does not involve any substantive criticism of our financial derivatives.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the 2013 annual report on the fight against fraud, a subject on which i was involved in the regi committee. in a context where member states are experiencing financial difficulties and the union's budgetary resources are limited, i believe that the protection of the union's financial interests is more necessary than ever. as such, i invite the commission and the member states to coordinate their action to combat corruption and fraud with european funds as effectively as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests. the protection of the financial interests of the union is of particular importance: in 2013, a total of 15 779 irregularities were reported to the commission, of which 1 609 were fraudulent, for a total amount of approximately eur 2,14 billion. thus, it is incumbent on both the commission and the member states to make every effort to combat fraud, corruption and any other type of illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ the fight against fraud in the eu budget, as presented in the pirinski report, is rightly aimed at strengthening financial transparency in the allocation of eu funds and at controlling the allocation of these resources. exchanges of information and consolidated data are necessary elements for the protection of the financial interests of the union. however, it appears that not all member states provide the same level of quality information and that control of funds is weak. the report should therefore have dealt in greater depth with the question of the relevance of the union's policies and the target beneficiaries of the funds allocated. i abstained on this report, which appears to be unbalanced and incomplete in its analysis.
in writing. ‒ abstained on this text because, although some of the amendments tabled by our members were accepted, the means of combating fraud as presented in this report remain insufficient, particularly as regards the diversion of aid by new entrants.
in writing. ‒ each year, parliament looks at the fight against fraud. this year, the focus is on the detection and reporting of irregularities in both expenditure and revenue of the eu budget. the report also notes that in 2013, a total of 15 779 irregularities were reported to the commission, for a total amount of approximately eur 2.14 billion. the report proposes to strengthen the fight against fraud. it criticised in particular the fact that, in cases of fraudulent irregularities, some member states limited their action to corrective measures without sanctioning those responsible. but it is the free movement of capital that the union is promoting that is making a major contribution to the development of fraud. as long as the fight against fraud is confined to the borders of tax havens, it will have little weight. i vote for it.
in writing. this report demonstrates once again that the budgetary organisation of the european union is inherently fraught with fraud and error, due to its remoteness and bureaucracy. thus, almost €309 million was misappropriated, of which an exorbitant €156 million came from social cohesion policy. the detection of such fraud is particularly important in romania, bulgaria, the czech republic and poland, which account for almost 40% of total fraud in the spending of eu funds, while italy is at the top of the list, with almost €68.5 million embezzled. these fraudulent irregularities also concern non-member countries, in the context of preaccession aid. while deterrent policies and the fight against fraud must be strengthened, whilst protecting whistleblowers, the old fantasy of the european public prosecutor's office, which would jeopardise the principle of subsidiarity, including in matters of fraud, must be avoided. it is for the member states to detect it and not for a supranational prosecutor's office. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 annual report on the protection of the union's financial interests and the fight against fraud. in 2013, 15 779 irregularities were reported to the commission, for a total amount of €2.14 billion. of these 15 779 irregularities, 1 609 were fraudulent, or more than 10%. the commission and the member states, whose diverse legal and administrative systems make it difficult to combat fraud, need to strengthen their cooperation in order to further reduce this phenomenon, which harms all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because i share the rapporteur's conclusions on the eu-wide fraud monitoring in 2013. i welcome the initiatives taken by the european commission in this area and i urge those member states which have not yet done so to set up anti-fraud coordination services in their territories as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in 2013, €309 million of fraud was uncovered. we urgently need to strengthen measures to combat these practices and support the increase of administrative capacity to detect them. the report by parliament supports these proposals and i have given it my support.
in writing. this report demonstrates once again that the budgetary organisation of the european union is inherently fraught with fraud and error, due to its remoteness and bureaucracy. almost €309 million was diverted, of which an exorbitant €156 million came from social cohesion policy. the detection of such fraud is particularly important in romania, bulgaria, the czech republic and poland, which account for almost 40% of total fraud in the spending of eu funds, while italy is at the top of the list, with almost €68.5 million embezzled. these fraudulent irregularities also concern non-member countries, in the context of preaccession aid. while deterrent policies and the fight against fraud must be strengthened, whilst protecting whistleblowers, the old fantasy of the european public prosecutor's office, which would jeopardise the principle of subsidiarity, including in matters of fraud, must be avoided. it is for the member states to detect it and not for a supranational prosecutor's office. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ at a time when european economies are still very much weakened by the economic and financial crisis, it is essential that the union actively intervenes in the fight against financial fraud and corruption. the european parliament adopted the 2013 annual report on the protection of financial interests. i voted in favour of this report. the text emphasises in particular the progress made by the commission in the fight against fraud and any other type of illegal activity. it also sets out the areas where the commission needs to improve. the commission needs to cooperate more closely with the member states and to promote a better understanding and application of the financial rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the protection of the union's financial interests and the fight against fraud, as it calls on the european commission to propose legislation to protect whistleblowers quickly. whistleblowers play a fundamental role in our democracies (by revealing information of public interest that is kept secret) and therefore need to be effectively protected throughout europe. indeed, whistleblowers are not only subject to intimidation, they are also subject to legal proceedings. this is the case of antoine deltour, who is currently being prosecuted by the luxembourg authorities for having passed confidential documents to a journalist, thus revealing the "luxleaks" scandal. the report also makes recommendations to combat fraud and corruption more effectively in the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. transparency and cooperation between the member states and the commission are among the prerequisites for an effective fight against misappropriation of european funds.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text which sets out the state of play of the protection of the union's financial interests and the fight against fraud for 2013. the report notes that the diversity of legal and administrative systems between member states makes it difficult to combat irregularities and fraud. among the recommendations that can be implemented is the need to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the commission and the member states in order to ensure that financial interests are protected effectively. the commission is therefore asked to create a mechanism for the exchange of information between the competent national authorities in order to detect transnational fraud as quickly as possible in the context of the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. in this time of financial crisis, we must strengthen our efforts and cooperation to fight fraud.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which responds to the european commission's report on fraud affecting the european budget in 2013. the text calls on the member states to do more to recover eu funds lost through fraud, to strengthen controls on the spending of eu funds and to fight corruption more vigorously. although 80% of european funds are managed and spent by the member states, the commission bears the overall responsibility for the expenditure of these funds. in some countries, however, such as france, a fair balance can be found between the fight against fraud and the daunting bureaucratic burden of the rules for access to european funds.
in writing. ‒ the european union wants to impose its standards and political system on a third country, even though it is not a member. it is not the responsibility of the union to interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, especially when it is not a member of the union. the recommendation to set up propaganda campaigns to 'change minds' is a significant example of this interference. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ once again, the european union which specialises in moral lessons, which it distributes to the whole planet "urges political actors and civil society to combat the widespread hostility towards sexual diversity, in particular through measures aimed at educating and informing the public in order to contribute to changing attitudes". the report also shows a deplorable desire to interfere in the montenegrin legislative process and in foreign policy choices. that is why i voted against mr tannock's report.
in writing. this monitoring report on montenegro, which is only a progress report, is intended to assess the progress made by montenegro towards its future accession to the european union. 16 chapters have already been approved. nevertheless, it is undeniable that montenegro suffers from recurring ills that plague its economy: organized crime, corruption, trafficking... furthermore, attacks on freedom of expression and media are a recurring phenomenon in the country, and this report makes a similar finding. in view of these facts, it is more than urgent that the 'eurobes' stop simply observing the situation and react by immediately stopping the process of montenegro's accession to the european union, since europe no longer has the financial means to welcome new states into its fold. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. montenegro was granted candidate status in 2012. this is the third report for this country. the negotiations could take longer than expected. the prime minister even raised the possibility of stopping the talks last november. two negotiating chapters are closed and ten new chapters are opened. the european commission considers that the country continues to meet the political conditions. i don't see what the lgbt issue is doing in the debate. in addition, montenegro is criticized for its politicized justice system and rampant corruption. i voted against this resolution, which requires montenegro to adopt a system and policy dictated by brussels.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 monitoring report on montenegro highlights the country's shortcomings in the fight against organised crime, corruption and trafficking of all kinds. as a matter of principle, i am opposed to any further enlargement of the european union and, noting the deplorable state of freedom of expression and of the press in that country, i call for the suspension of the accession process with montenegro and of all the financial payments that follow from it. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of a text which is a real violation of the sovereignty of the montenegrin people. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the budgetary and financial resources allocated to the eu are used effectively. the montenegrin parliamentarians are therefore asked to obey the commands of the european union, and so much for democratic pluralism. a shameful muzzling that i could only challenge.
in writing. this resolution takes note of the european commission's progress report on the progress of the european union enlargement negotiations with montenegro, which was granted candidate status in 2010. at present, the 2014 follow-up report published by the european commission shows that 16 chapters have been opened for negotiation and two chapters, on science and research on the one hand, and education and culture on the other, have been closed. further efforts are needed, as the report makes it clear that the country is still far from meeting all the criteria for membership. this will not be possible for many years. in view of all this, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. with this resolution we wanted to encourage montenegro in its efforts to establish a democratic state governed by the rule of law and with an independent and effective judiciary. we welcomed the proactive role it plays in the region, while encouraging it to quickly resolve conflicts that may exist between different political parties. the european union has opened several chapters of negotiations for montenegro's future accession, but only two have been provisionally closed at present, making accession uncertain and very far off. i would like to remind you, however, that in accordance with my campaign promises, i will remain vigilant that the european union does not undertake any further enlargements in the coming years. we need a lasting pause in the enlargement of the european union, this is not negotiable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2014 monitoring report on montenegro. this report takes stock of the accession negotiations between the european union and montenegro, noting progress but also expressing concerns on certain issues, such as freedom of the press.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2014 monitoring report on montenegro. this report reports on the progress of the negotiations between the european union and montenegro in the framework of the enlargement policy. montenegro, which has been a candidate country since 2010, is the only country in the region to open and provisionally close negotiating chapters with the union. however, many challenges remain.
in writing. ‒ on the european neighbourhood policy, i voted in favour of the resolution on the progress made by montenegro. the 2014 monitoring report for montenegro demonstrates full alignment with the common security and defence policy of the european union, but also points out that much progress still needs to be made in the fight against corruption, ensuring the independence of the judiciary and guaranteeing freedom of expression and media.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the follow-up report on montenegro, because this resolution seeks to impose on montenegro a system and policy dictated by brussels, and demonstrates the harmful ideology of continued enlargement. all this is not in the interests of the citizens of the member states, nor of those of montenegro. the objective of bringing montenegro into nato is openly acknowledged in paragraph 38 of the resolution. in paragraph 37, the government is congratulated on the fact that montenegro is, together with albania, the only western balkan country that is a candidate for accession to the union, which has fully brought its legislation into line with the decisions and positions of the european union on the situation in ukraine .
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it constitutes interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. it wants to impose a policy dictated by the european union.
in writing. - voted against the motion. the resolution constitutes interference in the affairs of a third country by requiring montenegro to adopt a system and policy dictated by the european union. we are against this blatant interference.
in writing. ‒ as a candidate country for eu membership, montenegro is monitored annually. the union calls on the council to combat discrimination, unemployment, repression of the press and the impunity of war crimes. but the stabilisation and association agreements for these candidate countries advocate above all liberalization and the implementation of austerity plans to curb the rise in public debt. in the case of montenegro, it is above all the 'russia bashing' which is the motivation behind the report which is now before the vote. we must strengthen integration as soon as possible. the political forces in montenegro should "focus on the country's integration into the european union" and the member states should "actively support montenegro's membership" of nato, which is already participating in some of its military operations. the country must continue along its path as the only country in the western balkans, along with albania, 'to have fully brought its legislation into line with the decisions and positions of the european union on the situation in ukraine'. i am voting against and against any further enlargement, particularly in this poisonous context of the cold war.
in writing. the 2014 monitoring report on montenegro highlights the country's shortcomings in the fight against organised crime, corruption and trafficking, which are poisoning business life. in principle opposing any further enlargement of the european union, and noting the deplorable state of freedom of expression and of the press, all accession processes with montenegro and all the financial payments arising from them must be stopped. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2014 monitoring report on montenegro. the resolution takes stock of the state of negotiations with montenegro in the context of its application for membership of the european union. it welcomed the significant efforts already made by montenegro but called for further efforts to strengthen the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it presents the state of progress of a country which is a candidate for membership of the european union and merely takes stock of that country's progress on an annual basis.
in writing. this monitoring report on montenegro, which is only a progress report, is intended to assess the progress made by montenegro towards its future accession to the european union. 16 chapters have already been approved. nevertheless, it is undeniable that montenegro suffers from recurrent ills that gangrenously affect its economy: organized crime, corruption, trafficking ... furthermore, attacks on freedom of expression and media are a recurring phenomenon in the country, and this report makes a similar finding. in view of these facts, it is more than urgent that the 'eurobes' stop simply observing the situation and react by immediately stopping the process of montenegro's accession to the european union, since europe no longer has the financial means to welcome new states into its fold. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text which gives an overview of the progress made by montenegro in 2014 in terms of reforms. some progress has been made, notably in the alignment of montenegro with the european union's common security and defence policy. however, the country must continue to make efforts to overcome certain weaknesses. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the text also stresses the absence of real action to combat impunity in war crimes cases. it is therefore necessary for montenegro to continue its efforts to align itself with the values defended by the european union and to focus its efforts on the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which welcomes the progress made by montenegro in the negotiation process for accession to the european union, but calls for ambitious measures to fight corruption, ensure the independence of the judiciary and guarantee freedom of expression and the media. this monitoring report does not, however, prejudge the rapid accession of montenegro to the european union.
in writing. ‒ once again, a report that requires montenegro to adopt a regime and political system dictated by the european union, which poses as a schoolteacher who would distribute the good and bad points. parliamentarians are dictating to the parliament of montenegro how it should conduct its political and legislative work! we are against this abhorrent interference in the national affairs of other sovereign states.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the continuity of the other reports on the eastern european states. there are many cases of interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, whether on social issues, with the consideration of the demands of the lgbt coterie, or in foreign policy, especially in its relations with greece. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is once again characterised by an intolerable desire to interfere motivated by an ideology which is not mine.
in writing. this 2014 follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which is again very ideologically oriented, advocates real interference in the legislative process and demands a promotion of the european union worthy of soviet propaganda. this is not surprising, since the union, as it is, intends to subject states and peoples to its dictatorship of a single thought and its globalist ideology. it even calls on macedonia to "condemn all forms of nationalism; calls for the vigorous defence of a tolerant, multiethnic, multi-confessional society in which everyone has a place". a whole program! finally, it no longer hesitates to interfere in its foreign policy by indicating to it the directions it must take, particularly with regard to greece. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against this report, whose ideological orientation is regrettable. once again, the european union is setting itself up as a lesson-giver. a serious dispute exists between one member state, greece, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. we cannot interfere in the conduct of this country's foreign policy. the report states that 'bilateral problems cannot be used to impede the accession process'. we must not interfere in the domestic legislative process of this country by asking for 'the law against discrimination to be brought into line with the union acquis'. i do not see the point in the precision of the report which 'condemns all forms of nationalism and calls for the voluntary defence of a tolerant multiethnic and multi-confessional society in which everyone has a place'.
in writing. ‒ the report is very ideologically oriented and advocates a scandalous interference by the european union in macedonia's internal legislative process and in its external relations, particularly with greece. the report "condemns all forms of nationalism and calls for the vigorous defence of a tolerant, multiethnic, multi-confessional society in which everyone has a place". he therefore advocates a macedonia with european infusion, permeable to the union's propaganda. it is in the interest of the macedonians to reject these multiple interferences that threaten their sovereignty and identity. that is why i voted against this scandalous text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this very ideologically oriented report. it advocates real interference in the legislative process, for example, by ordering macedonia to vote a pro-lgbt law. the eurocrats are also trying to dictate to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia the direction of its foreign policy. the european union is a member of the european union, and its relations with greece and the dispute between them over the name chosen for the former yugoslav republic. finally, the report is a real propaganda for multiculturalism: "condemns all forms of nationalism; calls for the voluntarist defense of a multiethnic and multi-confessional society". macedonia too, like many countries of the former soviet bloc, is in danger of being brought under the new yoke of the ussr, which is putting states under pressure and issuing its "best practices" in defiance of the independence of the peoples.
in writing. ‒ this resolution takes note of the european commission's progress report on the progress made in the negotiations for the enlargement of the european union to include the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the report recommends, for the sixth consecutive year, the opening of accession negotiations with macedonia, which was granted candidate status in 2005. the european parliament called on the council of ministers to set a date for the start of negotiations and stressed that the bilateral disputes in the region should not constitute an obstacle to the opening of negotiations. at present, it is clear that macedonia is still far from meeting all the necessary criteria for membership and that reforms are needed, including in the area of freedom and independence of the media, as well as to protect freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary. it is essential that macedonia complies with european standards in this area if it is to be considered a credible candidate country. in view of all this, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. every year, the european commission takes stock of the progress made by the candidate countries or potential candidates. this resolution thus reflects the commission's recommendations with regard to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i voted in favour of this resolution, which lists the policies that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia needs to develop in order to meet european criteria, such as freedom of the media, the independence of the judiciary and freedom of expression. however, this resolution is by no means a passport for integration into the european union, since no negotiating chapter has been opened to date. i am convinced that the european union must take a long-term break in the enlargement process.
in writing. ‒ this text interferes with the legislative process of a third country, macedonia, by asking for laws to be passed in favour of sexual minorities. it gives the state instructions on how to conduct its foreign policy, particularly vis-à-vis greece. finally, it is authoritarian in calling for "the voluntary defense of a tolerant multiethnic and multi-confessional society". this report is a pure product of pro-european union ideology, far removed from the daily reality of citizens, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report is a perfect illustration of the european union's deep contempt for the people. the report calls on a sovereign country to bring its anti-discrimination law into line with the eu acquis, as it does not prohibit discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. if it is a question of the european union imposing marriage for all, i will reply with this word by chateaubriand, by analogy: 'if the charter were imposed on me by europe, i would go to constantinople and become a turk...'
in writing. ‒ this text interferes with the legislative process of a third country, macedonia, by asking for laws to be passed in favour of sexual minorities. it gives the state instructions on how to conduct its foreign policy, particularly vis-à-vis greece. finally, it is authoritarian in calling for "the voluntary defense of a tolerant multiethnic and multi-confessional society". this report is a pure product of pro-european union ideology, far removed from the daily reality of citizens, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2014 follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. while substantial progress seems essential in the areas of freedom of expression, freedom of the press and the independence of the judiciary, i believe it is important not to dampen the momentum of reforms and the process of democratisation under way in the country.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2014 follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which has been a candidate country since 2005. this report reports on the progress of the negotiations between the european union and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in the framework of the enlargement policy. the opening of negotiations with the european union can only have a positive influence on the efforts made by this country to comply with the union's rules. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the environment, health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a resolution on the follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the text encourages the establishment of constructive cooperation between the european union and the fyrom, but recalls that much progress still needs to be made.
in writing. ‒ the national front meps voted against the resolution on the follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. as with all follow-up reports in the context of enlargement policy, this is a very ideologically oriented text. in the federalist concept, enlargement of the european union is an end in itself, whereas the vast majority of voters in most member states no longer want this policy of continuous enlargement. the aigle report is a typical example of the authoritarianism of the european union. he advocates a macedonia with european infusion, as well as very active pro-eu propaganda, including condemning all forms of nationalism and calling for the voluntary defense of a multiethnic and multi-confessional society.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it constitutes interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. it wants to impose a policy dictated by the european union.
in writing. - i vote against it. we are still opposed to the desire for enlargement. the report again shows the clear interference of the european union, as is the case with all the applicant countries. there is interference in the country's policy on the recognition of sexual orientation but also in the field of diplomacy, in this case for this country with greece. the european union is imposing its vision of what it sees as the "ideal" society for this country: multiethnic, multi-confessional, in line with european practices.
in writing. - i vote against it. this resolution advocates ideological and authoritarian interference in the legislative affairs and foreign policy of another country.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for the opening of negotiations for the accession to the european union of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom), as it is known internationally in the united nations, in defiance of the positions of greece in the council, which opposes the name and the country's nationalist policy. the resolution supports the atlanticist government in power at the moment. the good recommendations on freedom of expression, transparency or other rights should not be used as an excuse for the entry into force of this resolution. the european mirage of these countries will soon turn into a nightmare when they see the first effects of the structural reforms required even before possible integration. fyrom is the most advanced candidate country in terms of alignment with the union's market economy policy and is already one of the poorest countries in the union's neighbourhood. the unemployment rate is 30%, and the minimum wage is 130 euros. the only answer given by the union was market economy and liberalisation. i am voting against any enlargement under these conditions.
in writing. this follow-up report on macedonia in 2014 shows unprecedented propaganda. it is scandalously interfering both in its foreign policy, dictating its conduct, particularly with regard to greece, and also at the internal level, since it demands that a whole section of macedonian legislation be brought into line with the acquis of the european union, all in a discourse promoting the european union. in short, the union's resurgent arrogance is in line with the globalist logic. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2014 follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom). the resolution takes stock of the state of negotiations with the fyrom in the context of its eu accession application. it noted that fyrom, which had been a candidate for nine years, was the country with the most progress in alignment with the acquis communautaire, although corruption and organised crime remained at a worrying level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it presents the state of progress of a country which is a candidate for membership of the european union and merely takes stock of that country's progress on an annual basis.
in writing. this 2014 follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which is again very ideologically oriented, advocates real interference in the legislative process and demands a promotion of the european union worthy of soviet propaganda. this is not surprising, since the union, as it is, intends to subject states and peoples to its dictatorship of a single thought and its globalist ideology. it even calls on macedonia to "condemn all forms of nationalism; calls for the vigorous defence of a tolerant, multiethnic, multi-confessional society in which everyone has a place". a whole program! finally, it no longer hesitates to interfere in its foreign policy by indicating to it the directions it must take, particularly with regard to greece. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text which reports on the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in 2014 in terms of reforms. the report expresses some concerns, in particular with regard to media freedom, freedom of expression and the independence of the judiciary, for which it calls for the necessary reforms to be consolidated. moreover, recent events have led to serious accusations between the government and the opposition, worsening the political situation in the country. finally, the lack of constructive political dialogue is regrettable and remains a cause for concern.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the council to finally set a date for launching accession negotiations with the republic of macedonia and to break the deadlock over the name issue, which is poisoning relations between greece and the 'former yugoslav republic of macedonia'. greece is vetoing the accession process because of its opposition to the use of the name 'macedonia' by this neighbouring country, for historical, political and geographical reasons. parliament called on the commission to present initiatives to re-launch the dialogue and negotiations so as not to jeopardise the country's reform and democratisation process and its european aspirations. this monitoring report does not in any way prejudge the early accession of macedonia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report constitutes a characteristic interference in macedonian politics. the report calls on macedonia to change its legal codes and its relations with certain states such as greece. we are far from the spirit and the letter of the copenhagen criteria. that interference is the reason why i am opposed to the text.
in writing. ‒ this is a new report with a strong ideological orientation, in continuity with the other reports on the eastern states. the european parliament is advocating genuine interference in the legislative process. the commission has also been involved in the direction of the country's external relations, particularly its relations with greece. the report therefore advocates a macedonia with european infusion, as well as very active pro-european union propaganda. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this report is very ideologically oriented, in the sense of a vassalisation of the countries of eastern europe to nato. paragraph 11 in particular is an injunction to serbia to 'harmonise its foreign policy towards russia'. i voted in favour of an amendment to delete this paragraph. this report is deeply opposed to the principle of the sovereignty of states and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls in particular on serbia to 'harmonise its foreign and security policy with that of the european union, including its policy towards russia' and promotes the vassalisation of european countries to nato.
in writing. again, this motion for a resolution, which follows up on the 2014 follow-up report on serbia, calls for submission to the europeanist dogma. in view of the enlargement of the union and the possible accession of serbia, it is required that serbia harmonise its foreign and security policy with that of the union, in particular with regard to russia. there is still time for these states to back down from their desire to join the european union, at the risk of losing their legislative, budgetary and perhaps monetary sovereignty altogether in the long run. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. serbia now has the status of candidate country. twenty-eight negotiating chapters have been opened. the european parliament is once again making a point: 'great efforts' are still needed. we allow ourselves to interfere in serbia's delicate relations with its neighbours by imposing the normalisation of relations with kosovo. moreover, there is also some doubt as to the appropriateness of the invitation to serbia to 'harmonise its foreign and security policy with that of the european union, including the policy towards russia'. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the 2014 follow-up report on serbia shows a desire to encircle russia by subjecting the countries of eastern europe to the europeanist dogma (in particular through the enlargement policy). it contains intolerable requirements in areas where the european union has no competence. the european union calls on serbia to align its foreign and security policy with its own, including with regard to russia. this is blackmail for membership, which is a ploy to make the countries of the european union vassals of nato. i am opposed to any further enlargement and in defence of serbia's sovereignty i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ another report that shows the european union's mad rush to enlarge in recent years. i voted against this text which also violates serbia's independence, with injunctions such as 'invites serbia to harmonize its foreign and security policy with that of the european union'. foreign policy is supposed to be one of the prerogatives of the sovereign of any nation state! to ask the states aspiring to join the union to align their policies with its own is therefore to accept the federalist aims of the european union, in defiance of the treaties, in defiance of the will of the peoples who have, on many occasions, expressed their desire to remain sovereign. what is behind all the texts on relations with the countries of eastern europe which are currently being voted on in parliament is a desire to encircle russia by vassalising its strategic partners.
in writing. ‒ this resolution takes note of the european commission's progress report on the progress made in the negotiations for the enlargement of the european union to include serbia. following its new candidate status, granted in 2012, the first exchanges for membership took place on 21 january 2014. in this context, serbia has committed itself to reforms, with priority on chapters 23 and 24 concerning the judiciary, fundamental rights, freedom and security. the resolution also recalls the need for serbia to normalise its relations with kosovo (chapter 35 of the negotiations) and stresses that this progress must be made in parallel with the overall negotiations. serbia is also encouraged to align its foreign policy positions with those of the european union, in particular with regard to russia. the european parliament also called on serbia to make greater efforts to protect minorities. it is therefore clear that further efforts are needed for accession, which will not therefore be possible for many years. in view of all this, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. this resolution underlines the need for serbia to implement deep economic and social reforms in order to become a strong partner of the european union. to this end, the establishment of a rule of law with an independent judiciary is crucial. initial discussions were held on serbia's eventual accession to the european union, but this accession remains conditional on the normalisation of relations with kosovo, and is not expected to materialize for several years. considers that, in line with the promises we made to our constituents in may 2014, the enlargement process of the european union must be paused for a long time, in the interests of all.
in writing. ‒ this report is very ideologically oriented, in the sense of a vassalisation of the countries of eastern europe to nato. paragraph 11 in particular is an injunction to serbia to 'harmonise its foreign policy towards russia'. i voted in favour of an amendment to delete this paragraph. this report is deeply opposed to the principle of the sovereignty of states and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the european union is doomed; how can a system survive by humiliating a country like this? the report calls on serbia, which - i would remind you - has a democratically elected government and, unlike some countries, respects the will of its people, 'to align its foreign and security policy with that of the european union, including its policy towards russia'. if there is one recommendation we can make to serbia, it is to follow iceland's example by withdrawing its application for membership of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report, motivated by ideology and not by geopolitical interests or reality, tends towards nato controlling the foreign policy of the countries of eastern europe. the european union is also calling on serbia to align its foreign policy towards russia with that of the european union. i voted for the amendment to delete this paragraph, but against this report which is contrary to the principle of the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the follow-up report on serbia. i welcome the report's recommendations on socioeconomic reforms and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2014 follow-up report on serbia, which was granted candidate status in 2012. the european council of 28 june 2013 decided to open accession negotiations with serbia. the commission has made considerable progress in several areas in order to comply with the requirements of the union. however, many challenges remain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on serbia's progress since the new government was installed and its constructive approach to its relations with neighbouring countries. the text also recalls that serbia must take more concrete action to reform its judicial system and increase transparency in media ownership.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the follow-up report on serbia. this resolution is a catalogue of interference in serbian politics, particularly in the social, economic, institutional and energy fields. the european union also seems to be called upon to act as an arbiter in relations between serbia and kosovo, whereas that is not its role. the union's interference in serbia's foreign policy is more than suspicious, as it is clearly aimed at bringing the country into the sphere of influence of the united states and nato. this relentless drive to isolate russia from its allies will one day turn against the european union and its member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it constitutes interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. it wants to impose a policy dictated by the european union.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin opposed this text, which explicitly calls on serbia to align its foreign and security policy with that of the european union. another example of the union's interference in the relations of other countries.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement signed with serbia prepares serbia for future membership by imposing neoliberal reforms, in cooperation with the imf. the european union therefore observes the reform agenda in its agreements with the balkans every year. the commission calls on serbia to ensure 'budgetary consolidation' and 'restructuring' of public providers, and to pursue liberalisation, as recently in the electricity and telecommunications sectors. the resolution therefore congratulates the government on its "european commitment". it expresses its deep concern about kosovo, but does not mention the disastrous economic and social situation, which is aggravated by the european demands. as with the other texts on the western balkans, the resolution also calls on belgrade to align its policy towards russia with that of the european union, which the government has already refused to do. i am voting against any enlargement process under these conditions.
in writing. the 2014 follow-up report on serbia shows a desire to encircle serbia by subjecting the countries of eastern europe to the europeanist dogma (in particular through the enlargement policy). it contains intolerable requirements in areas where the european union has no competence. the european union calls on serbia to harmonise its foreign and security policy with that of the union, including (and especially) with regard to russia. this is blackmailing the eu membership and a ploy to vassalise the eu countries to nato. i voted against any further enlargement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2014 follow-up report on serbia. the resolution takes stock of the state of negotiations with serbia in the context of its application for membership of the european union. the resolution stresses that serbia has taken important steps to normalise relations with kosovo, but that the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement needs to be better implemented.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it presents the state of progress of a country which is a candidate for membership of the european union and merely takes stock of the country's progress on an annual basis.
in writing. again, this motion for a resolution, which follows up on the 2014 follow-up report on serbia, calls for submission to the europeanist dogma. in view of the enlargement of the union and the possible accession of serbia, it is required that serbia harmonise its foreign and security policy with that of the union, in particular with regard to russia. there is still time for these states to back down from their desire to join the european union, at the risk of losing their legislative, budgetary and perhaps monetary sovereignty altogether in the long run. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the serbian government has made considerable progress in the negotiations with the european union. however, the commission and parliament encourage serbia to continue its efforts in the area of the rule of law and judicial reform. in addition, serbia should intensify its efforts to align its foreign and security policy with that of the union, in particular its policy towards russia. the european parliament adopted the 2014 follow-up report on progress made by serbia. i support the reforms that this country is undertaking. however, i reiterate my wish to establish a moratorium of 5 to 10 years for any new membership.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text which reports on the progress made by the yugoslav republic of serbia in 2014 in terms of reforms. progress has been achieved, in particular, through the commitment of the serbian government and its constructive approach towards neighbouring countries through the building of a stable dialogue with bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and croatia. on the other hand, systemic and socioeconomic reforms are expected, as well as progress in the independence of the judiciary and more transparency on media ownership. it is important that the yugoslav republic of serbia continue along this path and continue its political, economic and social reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which welcomes the efforts of serbia, the commitment of the new serbian government to the european integration process and its constructive approach to relations with neighbouring countries, in particular kosovo, following the agreement concluded under the auspices of the high representative on 19 april 2013. however, much progress remains to be made in asserting the rule of law, reforming the judiciary, increasing media transparency and intensifying the coordination of eu and serbian foreign policies, particularly vis-à-vis russia. this monitoring report does not in any way prejudge the rapid accession of serbia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on serbia to 'come into line' with the european union's 'foreign policy'. it therefore calls on serbia to renounce its historical, cultural and strategic community with russia. the union therefore requires the vassalisation of new entrants and not the recognition of their specific characteristics. i object to this interference.
in writing. ‒ this report announces a new desire for enlargement with the scarcely veiled aim of encircling serbia by subjugating the countries of eastern europe. the european union has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organized crime. it is a vassalisation of the countries of europe to the nato system. i voted against it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this text is unacceptable because it simply does not take into account the interests and the distress of the serbs, so dear to victor hugo. he proposes to treat kosovo as a solved problem. kosovo would be a state in the process of normalization, where serbs and albanians would coexist better and better. we are in denial of reality, in the direct line of the absurd ideology that has been imposed for decades in the region, inspired by the us governments and the european union. the reality is that the european union has been wrong on this issue since the breakup of yugoslavia. the european union has recognised the legitimacy of the kla terrorist organisation and now recognises an institutionalised mafia as a state. today, some see it as a potential candidate for membership of the european union, as if european funds, policy frameworks and free trade could change the deep-seated determinism of a complex region.
in writing. ‒ this text represents a desire to integrate a territory that is not recognised by some of the members of the un security council into the european union. five eu member states, including spain, have contested the independence of the territory. it is obviously not possible, in this diplomatic context, to start any negotiations towards possible integration into the european union. the hostile policy of the pristina authorities towards the serbian orthodox minority is also evident. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ pursuing a crazy logic of continuous enlargement of the european union, the eurocrats now want to integrate a territory whose independence has not been recognized by all the members of the united nations security council, or even by five of the eu member states. for me, the region of kosovo-metohija remains the birthplace of serbia.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo is again ideologically oriented. in fact, this territory is not yet recognized by the united nations security council, or even by five of the member states of the european union. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to deal with the ever-increasing interference of the union. moreover, while it is so quick to lecture on human rights, how can the union even consider integrating a territory where, between 1999 and 2004, of the 235 000 serbs, gypsies, goranis and turks expelled from kosovo following the kumanovo agreements, only 12 000 were able to return, 1 200 serbs were murdered, 2 300 kidnapped, more than 150 churches and monasteries were destroyed and 40 000 houses burned or destroyed by explosives? i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i voted against this text. the question of a stagnation of the kosovo integration process can be raised. i can only express serious doubts about the efforts made by pristina. the report urges the eu to give a fresh impetus to reforms and stresses that the normalisation of relations with serbia is taking place. but many problems continue to arise, such as the fight against organised crime, corruption and mass exodus of people due to rampant unemployment, which hamper democratic development and the emergence of a rule of law. the report also notes that anti-corruption action is proving to be totally ineffective due to "weak political support". here again, ideology takes precedence over reason: it is not appropriate to launch the accession process, in the name of a dogmatic desire for continued enlargement, of a territory which is not even unanimously recognized by the united nations security council and, moreover, is not recognized by five of the member states of the european union. in addition, it should be required to respect the serbian and orthodox minority, which is still the victim of harassment in kosovo.
in writing. ‒ the report on the process of european integration in kosovo is very ideologically oriented. the european union wants to integrate a state which is not recognised as such by five of the member states of the european union or by the entire united nations security council. but more importantly, how can the european union envisage the integration of kosovo, when multiple human rights violations have been committed and are still being committed by the current government? i would like to remind you that of the 235 000 serbs, gypsies, goranis and turks who were expelled from kosovo between 1999 and 2004, only 12 000 of them were able to return to their homeland. this report shows the extent to which the european union has become a vassal to nato's interests. naturally, i was opposed to the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote in favour of this text which promotes the european integration of a territory whose independence is not yet recognised by two member states of the united nations security council or by five member states of the european union. it is in fact to combat the ideological vision of the european union that i tabled amendments to this dogmatic text in the afet committee. how can anyone claim to defend human rights and even consider joining the union in a territory ruled by authorities who have been guilty of ethnic cleansing of the serbian and orthodox minorities? furthermore, as the dick marty report, prepared by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe in 2011, showed, kosovo is a narco-state, where trafficking in all kinds of goods is rampant: drugs, weapons, but also human organs. despite this, the author of the report, ms lunacek, and the other parliamentarians who voted for the text, want to start the visa liberalisation process and talk about the eu-kosovo association agreement, which was initialled in july 2014. this is further proof that ideology is stronger than reality in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution takes stock of the progress of kosovo's european integration process, including the constitution of the parliamentary assembly following the parliamentary elections and the recent establishment of a new government. nevertheless, the resolution calls on kosovo to undertake reforms in the independence, impartiality and efficiency of its judiciary, to initiate reform of its prison system and to improve the overall rule of law performance. the resolution also mentions the allegations of corruption against some of its members in the european union mission in kosovo (eulex) and welcomes the decision of the vice-president of the european commission, federica mogherini, to launch an inquiry. pending the outcome of this inquiry, it is important to recall that eulex has a key role to play in kosovo's european integration process. in view of all this, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. this resolution aims to encourage kosovo in its process of normalising political life, following the appointment of a new government and the constitution of its national assembly. i voted in favour of this text, which calls for major reforms in all areas, including the judiciary and the independence of judges. as regards eu membership, it remains largely hypothetical, given the progress still to be made and because the eu must stop enlarging in the coming years if it is to complete the integration of the countries that have recently joined. on the other hand, there are still concerns about the increasing number of kosovo citizens leaving their country for eu member states. i'll be keeping a close eye on this matter over the next few months.
in writing. ‒ this text is unacceptable because it simply does not take into account the interests and the distress of the serbs. he proposed treating kosovo as a problem that had been solved in advance, thanks to the good european policies of the past two decades and the years to come: kosovo would be a state, in the process of normalization, where serbs and albanians would live together peacefully. we are in denial of reality, in the direct line of the absurd ideology that has been imposed for decades in the region by the action of the united states and the european union. the reality is that the union has been wrong on this issue since the break-up of yugoslavia, in particular by recognising the legitimacy of the terrorist organisation kla. today, kosovo is seen as a potential candidate for eu membership, as if eu funds, policy frameworks and free trade could change the deep-seated determinism of a complex region. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ as my colleague aymeric chauprade, a renowned geopolitical expert, rightly pointed out in the committee on foreign affairs, kosovo is not unanimously recognised by the un security council, nor even by five of the member states of the european union. this "to the bone" desire to integrate kosovo is an illustration of the adventurous foreign policy of the european union. there will come a time when history will judge what happened in kosovo. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this text is unacceptable because it simply does not take into account the interests and the distress of the serbs. he proposes treating kosovo as a problem that has been solved in advance thanks to the good european policies of the last two decades and the years to come: kosovo would be a state, in the process of normalization, where serbs and albanians would coexist better and better. we are in the midst of a denial of reality, in the direct line of the absurd ideology that has been imposed for decades in the region by the united states and the european union. the reality is that the union has been wrong on this issue since the breakup of yugoslavia. the union has recognised the legitimacy of the kla terrorist organisation and now recognises an institutionalised mafia as a state. today we see this "state" as a possible candidate for the european union, as if european funds, policy frameworks and free trade could change the deep determinisms of a complex region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the kosovo integration process. i support the continuation of reforms in this country and share the rapporteur's concerns, particularly on the issue of the independence of judges.
in writing. ‒ negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo were concluded and the agreement was initialled in july 2014. kosovo has made significant efforts to meet the criteria for eu membership. this sends a positive signal to all the countries of the union, showing that europe has not ceased to be attractive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on kosovo, which stresses the urgency and absolute need for the country to pursue structural reforms. the text calls on the government of kosovo to make the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the establishment of effective anti-corruption measures its main priorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the follow-up report on kosovo, as did the other members of the national front, because the european union wants to integrate a country that is not even recognised by the five current member states, in the name of an ideological desire for continued enlargement. the report underlines the lack of any significant progress in the fight against large-scale corruption and organised crime in kosovo. he's got links between organized crime and members of the public administration. it is also concerned about the extent of illegal possession of firearms and the rise in radicalisation among some young people, some of whom are joining jihadist movements in iraq and syria. let us be clear: it is not in the interest of the member states to give a prospect of accession to a country like kosovo.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it seeks to integrate kosovo into the european union, even though it is a state whose existence is recognised by only 23 of the 28 eu member states. i am also opposed in principle to any new accession to the union.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this proposal without hesitation. this proposal to integrate kosovo is a consequence of the european union's obsession with integration, even though the territory of kosovo is not unanimously recognised by the un security council and within the union itself, only 23 out of 28 member states officially recognise kosovo.
in writing. ‒ for ukraine, the european union's enthusiasm for the principle of the inviolability of borders and territorial integrity is overwhelming. when it comes to kosovo's independence, these principles have been and are put in parentheses. this resolution does not respect the un resolution or the opinion of the five eu member states which have not recognised kosovo's independence. in fact, it is participating in the general enthusiasm for the militarization of the region, denouncing neither the intention of the kosovar government to create an army nor the extension of the joint mission with nato forces on the ground. the resolution calls for the structural economic reforms provided for in the stabilisation and association agreement with the union to be followed. there is no answer to the growing migration to the balkans since the break-up of yugoslavia, while a third of the local population is unemployed. the report simply notes the "absence of any significant progress" in the fight against corruption and organised crime, even though kosovo has been the world's largest per capita recipient of eu aid. i vote against it.
in writing. the report on the process of european integration in kosovo is very ideologically oriented. the european union is willing to integrate kosovo, which is not even unanimously recognised by the united nations security council, or even by all the member states of the european union, into an endless enlargement process. several amendments have been tabled in committee in an attempt to rectify its obvious dogmatism and interference. how can the union teach lessons on human rights and minority rights to the whole world and do everything possible to include kosovo, where, between 1999 and 2004, of the 235 000 serbs, gypsies, goranis and turks expelled from kosovo, only 12 000 were able to return? i therefore opposed the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo. kosovo's independence is recognised by 110 of the 193 un member states, as well as by 23 of the 28 eu countries. the resolution recalls that the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement was initialled in july 2014 and that the legislative elections in may and june 2014 were transparent and well organised, as were the municipal elections that preceded them. however, it also stresses that much progress still needs to be made in strengthening the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it presents the state of progress of a country which is a candidate for membership of the european union and merely takes stock of the country's progress on an annual basis.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo is again ideologically oriented. moreover, this territory is not yet recognized by the united nations security council, nor by five of the member states of the european union. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to deal with the ever-increasing interference of the union. moreover, while it is so quick to lecture on human rights, how can the union even consider integrating a territory where, between 1999 and 2004, of the 235 000 serbs, gypsies, goranis and turks expelled from kosovo following the kumanovo agreements, only 12 000 were able to return, 1 200 serbs were murdered, 2 300 kidnapped, more than 150 churches and monasteries were destroyed and 40 000 houses burned or destroyed by explosives. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ kosovo has experienced difficulties in political stability in recent times, with a six-month political impasse and the appointment of a new government; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. the eu has also made progress in the fight against corruption and organised crime. at the international level, kosovo must continue to deepen the belgrade-pristina dialogue and normalize its relations with serbia in the long term. i voted in favour of this resolution to support kosovo's efforts and encourage its future reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is alarmed by the political and economic situation in kosovo: a new government with a plethora of people who are not unanimous, high levels of poverty and unemployment, endemic corruption and no significant progress in the fight against organised crime. the report calls for a strengthened dialogue with the european union to promote the necessary reforms. this report does not in any way prejudge the rapid accession of kosovo to the european union.
in writing. ‒ kosovo's independence is not recognised by five of the eu member states. this entity has been guilty of ethnic cleansing against the serbs in this territory, which is the historical heart of serbia. between 1999 and 2004, of the 235 000 serbs, gypsies, goranis and turks expelled from kosovo following the kumanovo agreements, only 12 000 were able to return, 1 200 serbs were murdered, 2 300 kidnapped, more than 150 churches and monasteries were destroyed and 40 000 houses burned or destroyed by explosives. we must also stress that kosovo is a hub for trafficking into europe. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ it is inconceivable to vote for this very ideologically oriented report. in essence, the european union would like to integrate into its fold, in the name of an ideological will for continuous enlargement, a territory which is not even unanimously recognized by the united nations security council or by five of the member states of the european union. i am opposed to kosovo's integration into the union. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ economic policy coordination does not seek to combine different national objectives to define common strategies in certain key sectors, but aims to strengthen the internal market. the latter appears to be the central concern of the proposed text, whose incantations can only be aimed at the convergence of the union's economies and regulatory harmonization. the european semester is an economic plan which does not meet the needs of the member states, which only satisfies supranational political objectives and which is proving to be a trap which is both ineffective and contrary to the sovereignty of the member states, which is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european semester because this practice is a first step towards vital economic coordination for the euro area. the result will be the creation of an economic government for the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: annual review of growth 2015. beyond the few details on the operation of the european investment fund, the text bears the stamp of a classical liberal philosophy: welcoming the 'success' of the troika programmes in greece, portugal and ireland, the resolution calls on the other member states of the european union to show the same ambition in modernising their economies... the troika's record is disastrous: economic recession, explosion of unemployment and significant increase in debt. i believe that continuing on the path of austerity and the dismantling of social protection systems is pushing the european economy a little further into the mire of the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is nothing more than a series of incantations about the 'european semester for the coordination of economic policies' and which i consider above all to be a trap that is both ineffective and contrary to the sovereignty of our states.
in writing. this report on the european semester for economic policy coordination, with the annual growth survey 2015, is a perfect illustration of the european hypocrisy. the report calls for more investment and deplores the lack of public support, but it quickly forgets that the union and the budgetary requirements of brussels, which oblige the states to become ever more austere and to reduce public expenditure, are in total contradiction with the guidelines advocated in the text. worse, euro area countries are doing worse than those outside. unemployment is 11.5% in the euro area compared to 7.3% outside, and gdp is 2% lower than in 2008 in the euro area but higher than 4.5% outside. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report gives a fairly lucid assessment of the economic and social situation in the euro area. growth is very low and unemployment is at record levels at almost 11.5% of the labour force. the union is also trying to combat deflationary risks by proposing a european-wide investment stimulus and employment-friendly structural reforms. in a context of squeezing member states' national budgets, coupled with the maintenance of the single currency, these policies will not achieve the desired results. moreover, neither the youth guarantee nor the introduction of a european minimum income will make it possible to move towards social convergence between the member states. no, the solutions are elsewhere and require the union to make a real update of the ultra-liberal economic policies which have been pursued for too many years. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual growth review for 2015 in the context of the european semester for economic policy coordination. the economic and financial crisis of 2008 highlighted the need to coordinate the economic policies of the member states. we have seen that when one country is in difficulty, the union as a whole suffers the consequences. i am not, of course, referring here to greece or spain alone, but also to belgium, italy and france. the report stresses the importance of respecting the rules that the member states themselves have defined in the stability and growth pact, as well as implementing appropriate structural reforms as proposed by the commission in the country-specific recommendations. this is the essential condition for the lasting recovery of our economies. we must be flexible, but only within the rules of the pact. i also welcome the new european economic strategy, which is based on three pillars: fiscal responsibility, structural reforms and investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which welcomes the european semester as a genuine system for monitoring national economic policies. under the pretext of coordinating national economic policies with a view to meeting the long-term growth objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy , the european commission is once again allowing itself to allocate the good and bad points in economic strategy, without taking any account of the specificities of each national economy. the growth targets set are thus unrealistic in view of the fiscal consolidation obligations imposed on the member states, which are far too burdensome in a crisis context.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the annual review of growth in 2015 in the context of the european semester. these figures make it clear that the union is still suffering from the consequences of an exceptionally long economic crisis. if the recovery remains fragile, it needs to be strengthened by a long-term strategy based on stimulating investment, accelerating structural reforms and responsible, growth-oriented fiscal consolidation. i am convinced that there is also a need to strengthen the coordination of national policies with a view to gradually reducing the internal and external macroeconomic imbalances of the member states, including the large trade surpluses. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. established in 2010 to bring fiscal and economic policies closer together, the european semester traditionally begins with the annual growth review. this exercise helps to define the economic priorities of the european union. in its 2015 annual growth survey, the european commission identified three priorities: boosting investment, a renewed commitment to structural reforms and responsible, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. by voting for this text, i wanted in particular to welcome the approach focused on these three priorities and to support the request for the adoption of a special scheme for smes in the context of the €315 billion investment plan proposed by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the european semester provides a framework for the economic and budgetary policies of the member states. it is a tool for common economic governance and as such constitutes a further step towards greater integration of the euro area. this coordination at european level must give priority to growth and employment, cohesion and investment, and ensure a macroeconomic rebalancing of the euro area. to make this process more effective, the european parliament should of course be more involved, but so too should our national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ economic policy coordination as presented in the european semester does not seek to combine different national objectives to define common strategies in certain key sectors, but aims to strengthen the internal market. the latter appears to be the central concern of the proposed text, whose incantations can only seek the convergence of the union's economies and regulatory harmonization. the european semester is an economic plan which does not meet the needs of the member states and which only satisfies supranational political objectives, which is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament needs no less than three reports on growth, coordination of social and employment policies, governance of the single market to give its opinion on the european semester. this is just enough to wipe out all the areas in which the states must submit their policies to the dictates, advice, guidelines, etc. from brussels: budgetary austerity, 'liberalisation' of everything that can still be done, far-reaching reforms - we know in what sense - of social protection, full application of the 'services' directive, the so-called bolkenstein, 'flexibilisation' of the labour market, encouragement of the free movement of people, tax harmonisation and so on... this is what the european semester is all about: the first annual step in the supervision of public spending and national policies, in the name of compliance with the maastricht criteria on public deficits and debt. vague considerations of poverty reduction or social considerations are hard to mask that it is the policies advocated that create social insecurity and precariousness. between the denial of sovereignty and the economic and social disaster that is being announced, the only vote that is necessary is "against". on all the texts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it underlines the very importance of the european semester. this exercise makes it possible to put the member states to the test, to compare good practices with those that are less so, to understand who are the good and bad pupils. it thus enables the european commission to make useful recommendations to member states which do not comply with the rules of the stability and growth pact. i am therefore particularly surprised at the leniency shown to france, which was given two more years to carry out its reforms. this is not doing our country any good, it is giving the socialist government an opportunity to delay reforms, at the risk of burdening future generations with the burden of debt!
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the internal market, without seeking to coordinate national objectives, in order to define common strategies in key sectors. this is the purely ideological aim of this text: the convergence of the union's economies and regulatory harmonization. this report does not meet the needs of the member states by focusing only on supranational policy objectives. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague dariusz rosati on the annual growth review in the context of the european semester for economic policy coordination. this annual report is based on the european commission's annual growth survey and winter forecast and focuses on structural reform efforts undertaken by countries under the excessive deficit procedure. throughout the semester, the european commission analyses the member states' plans for budgetary, economic and structural reforms and then makes recommendations to them for the following year. the text also regrets the low visibility given to the states party to the stability and growth pact on the country-specific recommendations. the report was adopted by a large majority of 437 votes in favour, 249 against and 11 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european semester for economic policy coordination in 2015. the economic recovery in the european union slowed down considerably in 2014 but, according to the european commission, a catch-up is expected in 2015 and improvements could occur in 2016. the challenge now is to tackle both cyclical and long-term structural problems. urgent action should be taken by the commission to combat tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the budgetary surveillance system which allows the commission not only to scrutinise budgets and ask for amendments before they are even adopted by national parliaments, but also to push for further cuts or reforms if the proposed budgets do not suit it. i reject this process of stepping up the reduction of wages and pensions, of raising the retirement age and of continuing privatisation and liberalisation, with the only result of tearing public services and social rights apart. it is in fact in the context of the european semester that the commission regularly denounces the cdi and the monopolies of sncf and edf in france. i have supported proposals that can improve the social dimension, but i am still very critical of this tool which allows the european institutions to dictate their policies to the states in defiance of popular sovereignty. i therefore voted against these three reports.
in writing. ‒ economic policy coordination as presented in the european semester does not seek to combine different national objectives to define common strategies in certain key sectors, but aims to strengthen the internal market. the latter appears to be the central concern of the proposed text, whose incantations can only seek the convergence of the union's economies and regulatory harmonization. the european semester is an economic plan which does not meet the needs of the member states and which only satisfies supranational political objectives, which is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates boosting european competitiveness through 'increased competition in product and service markets', recalling that 'labour costs must be commensurate with productivity'. it also urged states to "reduce current expenditure". the report, which is a strong advocate of free trade, is "concerned about protectionist tendencies in some member states". finally, the report welcomes the good results achieved by the austerity measures imposed on the states, which have "successfully implemented adjustment programmes". any names? only one failure of this policy is admitted, namely that 'only five member states fully comply with the provisions of the stability and growth pact (sgp) '. that should be enough to ask...
in writing. ‒ the european semester is evidence of the chronic divergence of the euro area economies. this cycle of economic policy coordination has never succeeded in creating, ex post, the conditions for the optimal single monetary area. the specific recommendations made by the commission for each member state are followed in less than 10% of cases, which shows the ineffectiveness of the mechanism. furthermore, it is for the sovereign states to decide on the reforms to be implemented, not for the european union to decide through a binding mechanism. in the final analysis, the report on the european semester multiplies the consensual incantations to growth or full employment, hoping to make them reappear. this is obviously just another illusion of economic and monetary union.
in writing. this own-initiative report on the annual growth review in 2015 in the context of the european semester is a big hypocrisy. it complains that public investment has dried up and calls for continued austerity and reduced public spending. these pro-cyclical policies are a sign of a great economic imperative, destroying any hope of recovery. the contrast with the economic situation in the united states is striking in this respect. moreover, gdp in the euro area is 2 percentage points lower than in 2008, while that of the non-euro area countries is 4.5 percentage points higher. the same is true of unemployment. it reaches 11.5% in the euro area and only 7.3% outside the euro area. this shows the obvious failure of the european and anti-democratic policies pursued by the brussels organisation with the complicity of the national authorities. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2015 annual growth survey in the context of the european semester. the european commission analyses the member states' plans for budgetary, economic and structural reforms and then makes recommendations to them for the following year. the report highlights that the level of investment in europe has fallen by €470 billion since the peak of the crisis and that the euro area continues to face record unemployment (12%) it supports the commission's approach to consolidating the recovery along three lines: boosting investment, accelerating structural reforms and consolidating public finances to return to sustainable growth. it also welcomed the €315 billion investment plan for the juncker plan.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it provides a fair analysis of the need to improve the governance of the single market so that it can fulfil its role as a european engine and it identifies the key growth areas that will improve the functioning of the single market.
in writing. this own-initiative report on the 2015 annual growth survey in the context of the european semester is a big hypocrisy. it complains that public investment has dried up and calls for continued austerity and reduced public spending. these pro-cyclical policies are a sign of a great economic imperative, destroying any hope of recovery. the contrast with the economic situation in the united states is striking in this respect. moreover, gdp in the euro area is 2 percentage points lower than in 2008, while that of the non-euro area countries is 4.5 percentage points higher. the same is true of unemployment. it reaches 11.5% in the euro area and only 7.3% outside the euro area. this shows the obvious failure of the european and anti-democratic policies pursued by the brussels organisation with the complicity of the national authorities. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ since the new commission took office in november 2014, president juncker has focused on the recovery of growth in the union. the union's priorities are to promote strong growth and consolidate the recovery on the basis of three pillars: budgetary discipline, structural reforms and investment. the european parliament adopted this report. i am glad that i voted in favour of this text. i believe that growth can be restored in europe on a lasting basis if the union encourages and facilitates investment in europe and abroad and if it involves smes to a large extent in the recovery of growth. in addition, it is important to strengthen coordination between the different policies of the member states and to ensure the economic and budgetary cohesion of the union.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the european commission's approach to growth and recovery, which is based on three pillars: investment, structural reforms and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation. these pillars and reforms are part of the solution to reduce unemployment and poverty and to return to sustainable growth. i therefore supported this text, which also calls for greater involvement of national parliaments in the discussions on the european semester and for greater appropriation at national level of the country-specific recommendations. it is essential that europe becomes more competitive and continues its efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and to strengthen the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the annual growth review drawn up each year by the european commission and which launches the 'european semester'. i support the three-pillar approach fiscal consolidation, investment and structural reforms to support the return of sustainable growth and job creation in europe. if europe is not to fall back into a crisis as terrible as the one it has just experienced, we must now continue along the path of better coordination of our economic policies, by strengthening and deepening the european semester. this requires, in particular, greater involvement of national parliaments in the development of country-specific recommendations, to ensure greater democratic legitimacy of the process. member states should also be encouraged to implement the recommendations made by the commission. they are intended to help people get back on the path to growth and employment. finally, the european semester must also be geared to better integration of financial markets, an active fight against tax fraud and evasion and an improvement in the efficiency of the labour market.
in writing. ‒ this report is based on the fact that the main directions of economic policy must be decided in brussels. i am opposed to it in order to defend democracy and the social and political rights of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the supranational objectives of the european semester are expressed here in proposals for structural reforms which refer to two challenges in european employment and social policy: the search for greater flexibility in the labour market in a context of free movement of workers and a fundamental trend towards the harmonisation of employment protection rules. the convergence of economies and labour market systems is not based on any legitimacy or feasibility of these proposals. the text submitted to the european parliament is therefore a charm and is based more on political considerations than on real needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the final resolution on employment and social aspects in the context of the annual growth survey, a document published in november 2014 by the european commission which aims to ensure the coordination of economic policies within the union. it provides a lucid analysis of the disastrous consequences of the austerity policies in the peripheral countries of the union, but also of the accelerated measures of budgetary consolidation which have broken the mechanism of recovery in the other states of the european union. the quality of the recommendations in this resolution owes much to the excellent work of the socialist rapporteur, sergio gutiérrez prieto, who was able to convince a majority of meps to support, among other things, a plan to combat dumping and tax evasion and to call for the introduction of an ambitious tax on financial transactions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to the 'european semester for the coordination of economic policies', which is contrary to the fundamental right of each member state and its people to decide their policies in accordance with their economic and social situation, as well as their rights and aspirations.
in writing. this second report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies focuses more particularly on employment and social aspects. the european union's austerity policies and the decline in investment spending are preventing and will prevent any recovery in growth and a fall in unemployment. the fall in the price of the euro (which european leaders welcome, but previously did not want) should allow for recovery. unfortunately, this situation is likely to be short-lived, as in the case of the fall in oil prices - a fall which does not improve households' purchasing power in any way, since prices at the pump have fallen only slightly. it is now urgent that the union should put an end to this policy of austerity and a rush to save a single currency which is not fit for purpose. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report on the european semester is a real schizophrenia. he condemned the decline in public investment and called for the continuation of austerity policies. these pro-cyclical policies are a sign of a real economic imperative. one might think that the european commission is trying to contain public investment by member states to support the juncker plan at european level. the contrast with the economic vitality of the united states is striking. it should be noted that gdp in the euro area is 2 percentage points lower than in 2008, while that of the non-euro area countries is 4.5 percentage points higher. the same is true of unemployment. it reaches 11.5% in the euro area and only 7.3% outside the euro area. this shows the clear failure of the anti-democratic european policies pursued by the brussels commission. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on employment and social aspects in the context of the 2015 annual growth review of the european semester for economic policy coordination. one of the findings of the crisis was the need to coordinate the economic policies of the member states. it is true that the interdependent economies of europe affect each other. we must now realize the need to do the same at the social level. the crisis has had devastating social consequences. the unemployment rate is rising. this is most often due to a lack of political courage on the part of some governments who do not implement the appropriate structural reforms to get their country's economy back on track. if we want to create growth and jobs, we must be politically realistic. this report also gave me the opportunity to reiterate my position in favour of a vigorous fight against social and fiscal dumping and the introduction of minimum wages adapted to the situation in each member state.
in writing. ‒ because i am opposed to the european commission's oversight of the member states, particularly in the context of their economic policy, i voted against this report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. the report is a statement of the failure of the economic and budgetary dictates imposed by brussels. the rapporteur acknowledges that the economic and social situation in the euro area is continuing to deteriorate. the solutions advocated are also the opposite of what should be done to revitalise employment: the junker plan is expected to be the providential solution, even though the social impact is excluded from the plan's strategy. finally, recent reforms imposed by brussels have - let us not forget - led to an increase in precarious work, which is the opposite of a sustainable strategy for jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses social and employment aspects in the context of the 2015 annual growth survey and calls for ambitious and responsible economic policies for growth, quality job creation and the fight against deflation. the report calls on the european commission to take urgent action to combat tax dumping, tax fraud and tax evasion and calls for the adoption at council level of an ambitious financial transaction tax. i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which dealt with the social aspects of the european semester, which is an annual cycle of economic policy coordination. the european commission should be able to analyse the member states' plans for budgetary, economic and structural reforms during this semester and then make recommendations on their economic trajectory. i wanted to support a recital protecting our small and medium-sized enterprises from relocation, and a paragraph to quickly introduce a financial transaction tax and fight tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ the european semester provides a framework for the economic and budgetary policies of the member states. it is a tool for common economic governance and as such constitutes a further step towards greater integration of the euro area. this coordination at european level must give priority to growth and employment, cohesion and investment, and ensure macroeconomic rebalancing in the euro area. to make this process more effective, the european parliament should of course be more involved, but so too should our national parliaments. in this resolution, the european parliament asked the commission to study the introduction of minimum wages in the member states to reduce wage inequalities and to this end to organise a conference on a european framework for minimum wages. this initiative is in line with the fiscal and social convergence we have been calling for for a long time and which is the only way to combat unfair competition between european countries.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted on 11 march 2015 on the guttierez report on the employment component for the first half of 2015. i support this report, which makes a number of important proposals to emphasize and strengthen the social dimension of the european semester. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. it called on the european commission to organise a conference on a european framework for setting minimum wages. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. finally, the report condemns austerity policies and therefore regrets the harmful consequences for social cohesion. it is a way of affirming the need, in general, to replace ineffective austerity and the destruction of solidarity by a social union which will counterbalance the existing economic and monetary union.
in writing. ‒ the supranational objectives of the european semester are outlined in proposals for structural reforms which refer to two pitfalls of european employment and social policy. first of all, there is a search for greater flexibility on the labour market in a context of free movement of workers, as well as a fundamental trend towards the harmonization of employment protection rules. the convergence of economies and labour market management systems are not based on any legitimacy or feasibility of these proposals. the text submitted to the european parliament is therefore a charm and is based more on political considerations than on real needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on social aspects in the context of the 2015 annual growth survey. firstly, it is essential that the european semester, which coordinates the economic and budgetary policies of the states within the european union, also take into account the 'social dimension': job creation, education and active labour market policies to increase human capital, youth unemployment, labour mobility, etc. in particular, i supported the paragraph which calls for and insists on the introduction of an ambitious financial transaction tax, which we have been calling for for several years now. i also supported the paragraphs calling for a european minimum income. in the perspective of a real social europe, we want to start real discussions on the creation of a real european smic. on the other hand, i voted against a paragraph which proposed to revert to the budgetary objectives of 'public deficits' which were set by the european union in the framework of the stability and growth pact, because the reduction of debts and deficits, which have reached unprecedented sums in europe, must remain a priority objective.
in writing. ‒ the reforms proposed in this report, which are part of the european semester and its supranational objectives, face two obstacles: the union's employment policy and its social aspects. the search for flexibility through the free movement of persons, on the basis of harmonization of employment protection rules, allows the convergence of economies and labour laws without this process being legitimate and without being sure that it was feasible. the text submitted to the european parliament is therefore a charm and is based more on political considerations than on real needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr sergio gutiérrez prieto, on the social aspects of the annual review of growth in the context of the european semester for economic policy coordination. throughout the semester, the european commission analyses the member states' plans for budgetary, economic and structural reforms and then makes recommendations to them for the following year. this report focuses on the social aspects of the european semester and identifies those member states which require further analysis to determine whether there are real imbalances. the report was adopted by a large majority of 477 votes in favour, 203 against and 23 abstentions.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the social aspects of the european semester. the report calls in particular for the implementation of ambitious economic policies for growth and job creation, support for smes, encouragement of a more rational use of european funds and the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ as i had already done in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of the gutierrez prieto report on the coordination of economic policies in the context of the european semester. this report focuses on the social issues that should guide the annual policy of the union and the member states on growth and employment. it stresses in particular the need to take account of social indicators and to promote the creation of decent jobs in the context of sustainable and sound growth. i regret, however, that he does not stress the absolute need to implement the structural reforms which are crucial to achieving the economic and social objectives.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the budgetary surveillance system which allows the commission not only to scrutinise budgets and ask for amendments before they are even adopted by national parliaments, but also to push for further cuts or reforms if the proposed budgets do not suit it. i reject this process of stepping up the reduction of wages and pensions, of raising the retirement age and of continuing privatisation and liberalisation with the sole result of tearing public services and social rights apart. it is in fact in the context of the european semester that the commission regularly denounces the cdi and the monopolies of sncf and edf in france. i have supported proposals that can improve the social dimension, but i am still very critical of this tool which allows the european institutions to dictate their policies to the states in defiance of popular sovereignty. i therefore voted against these three reports.
in writing. ‒ the supranational objectives of the european semester are outlined in proposals for structural reforms which refer to two pitfalls of european employment and social policy. first of all, there is a search for greater flexibility on the labour market in a context of free movement of workers, as well as a fundamental trend towards the harmonization of employment protection rules. the convergence of economies and labour market management systems are not based on any legitimacy or feasibility of these proposals. the text submitted to the european parliament is therefore a charm and is based more on political considerations than on real needs.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this report, as he had done in the empl committee. the very principle of the european semester goes against the sovereignty of the member states by imposing on them recommendations that are impossible/difficult to implement and a permanent surveillance from brussels on how they manage their affairs. we oppose this interference in the internal affairs of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report notes an alarming situation on the employment front with 25 million people unemployed in the union. it therefore lays down the european parliament's recommendations on 'employment and social aspects'. as usual, the report gives us the impetus to pursue fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. it's about reducing the tax burden on labour, raising the retirement age, aligning wages with productivity... and other liberal litanies that have proven to be unsuccessful. i vote against it.
in writing. the fiscal consolidation in the euro area countries is far from over and the eu leaders continue to promote deadly austerity. it therefore prevents any recovery in growth and any reduction in unemployment. the average budgetary multiplier is greater than 1, so any additional austerity measures reduce the gdp of the states even more. the european union is counting on the fall of the euro and the price of oil to give it hope of a recovery. but it may not last. the youth employment initiative and the youth guarantee will not solve these problems, nor will those linked to low-skilled workers and the training gap. with the unemployment rate in the euro zone at 11.5% compared with "only" 7.3% outside the euro zone, the union refuses to open any real debate on the single currency and on intelligent protectionism, the only way to get the euro zone countries out of the current slump. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the social aspects of the european semester. the european commission analyses the member states' plans for budgetary, economic and structural reforms and then makes recommendations to them for the following year. the report stresses the need for member states to carry out genuine structural reforms, as they are the precondition for the return of long-term competitiveness. it also draws attention to the difficulties of financing smes and calls on the member states to remove all unnecessary administrative burdens on these enterprises, which account for more than 90% of european jobs.
in writing. the fiscal consolidation in the euro area countries is far from over and the eu leaders continue to promote deadly austerity. it prevents any recovery in growth and any reduction in unemployment. the average budgetary multiplier is greater than 1, so any additional austerity measures reduce the gdp of the states even more. the union is counting on the fall of the euro and the price of oil to give it hope of a recovery. but it may not last. the youth employment initiative and the youth guarantee will not solve these problems, nor will those linked to low-skilled workers and the training gap. with the unemployment rate in the euro zone at 11.5% compared with "only" 7.3% outside the euro zone, the union refuses to open any real debate on the single currency and on intelligent protectionism, the only way to get the euro zone countries out of the current slump. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the social dimension of the european semester. it is essential that europe focuses on and continues its efforts to revive growth and employment. labour market reforms in many member states have not reduced precariousness. we therefore call for greater flexibility in the implementation of reforms by member states in difficult economic and financial situations, with the aim of ensuring that the measures taken by member states are compatible with job creation, social responsibility and growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the social dimension of the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. the european semester is a very important tool, created in response to the recent economic and financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis, to ensure that europe never again finds itself in a critical situation from which it is only just recovering. in practical terms, the european semester is an annual cycle of economic policy coordination, through which the european commission analyses the member states' plans for budgetary, economic and structural reforms and then makes recommendations to them for the coming year. in parallel with this, the commission also publishes its report on the alert mechanism, the heart of which is a scoreboard of indicators including social indicators which allows the commission to determine whether real imbalances exist in a member state and to recommend measures and reforms to address them. in this exercise, while compliance with the budgetary rules in force is essential, the commission should also take into account the social context of member states in financial difficulty.
in writing. ‒ this report is based on the fact that the main directions of economic policy must be decided in brussels. i am opposed to it in order to defend democracy and the social and political rights of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the 2015 annual growth survey enables the european parliament to express its views on the state of the union and make recommendations on economic policies for its member states. it is regrettable that some of the proposals put forward by the right have been incorporated into the final compromise. i can mention among others: - the demand for reduction of labour costs as an element of competitiveness, in paragraph 5, even though deflation is threatening europe. - paragraph 13 welcomes austerity programmes and encourages eurozone states to cut their budgets, even though all countries under the troika programme have seen their economies plummet, their debt explode and their social programmes suffer. - the resolution, in paragraph 25, encourages the flexibilization of the labour market, a well-known liberal tenet. these are proposals which i consider fundamentally unfair, destructive, ineffective and conducive to the prolongation of the crisis in europe. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is nothing more than one of the translations of the budgetary treaty into european law. it is therefore the least he can do to acknowledge the consequences in terms of unemployment and precariousness, but he does not learn from it and even suggests that we continue along the same path. symptomatic of this hypocrisy, one paragraph acknowledges that member states, whose budgets are cut by austerity, are not in a position to protect and promote the vital sectors of education, research and innovation. however, the majority of meps refused to draw the consequences by excluding them from the calculation of public deficits. the same applies to social dumping, which is admittedly possible if the fight against wage dumping is excluded. the european parliament has once again reaffirmed its support for an 'ambitious financial transaction tax'. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is a concentrate of ideologies: opening up the last frontiers, described as 'recalcitrant barriers', signing international trade agreements such as ttip, opening up public procurement to concession contracts for private companies... the report seeks to put an end to the last protectionist tendencies and recommends that the commission systematically monitor the compliance of the states with its recommendations. so i objected.
in writing. ‒ this governance of the single market represents a serious infringement of the sovereignty of the member states and is a further step towards their being placed under the tutelage of a highly centralised system, run by an unelected commission with ever-increasing and strengthened powers. i voted against this dangerous text.
in writing. this third report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015 is particularly binding on member states. this report is therefore presented to us here as the 'holy grail', the magic weapon for ever greater economic integration to bring the european union out of its slump. it is therefore necessary for the states to follow the commission's recommendations closely and to put an end to the last remaining obstacles (i.e. fewer and fewer borders). in addition, it will obviously be necessary to go further and further in the digital or energy single market, to facilitate even more the free movement of goods, through ttip in particular, to open public contracts to private concessions (privatisation therefore!) and to further promote the application of the services directive. i therefore voted against this report. finally, it is more than necessary to put an end to this technocratic union, which is totally disconnected from economic realities. it is time to break free from the dogma of the single currency, to establish intelligent protectionism and to increase support for smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester. the member states have understood, with the crisis, the need to coordinate their economic policies. we must continue this momentum by converging national social and fiscal policies. completing the internal market is also an absolute necessity. we see on a daily basis that many obstacles to the proper functioning of the european economy remain. one of the solutions to the resumption of growth lies in the removal of these obstacles. some sectors have very high growth potential and are constrained by disparate national policies. it is our duty as european co-legislators to optimise the single market to meet the needs of our citizens. in this context, i welcome the new commission's desire to remove barriers to investment by completing the single market, particularly in the energy and digital sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is part of the desire to establish a single market, which is obviously an attack on our national sovereignty. the aim is always the same, and we know it: to break down territorial, cultural and intellectual barriers, to establish a large world market which would benefit only a globalised elite and would be to the detriment of the people. the report seeks to put the states under the control of the commission, since the serious macroeconomic disparities are only explained by a lack of europe. as usual, the ideology is at work: more integration will solve the problems like magic, through the establishment of the digital single market, the free movement of goods, capital, services and people; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. a report which is a real attack on the peoples, their freedom, their independence and their prosperity.
in writing. ‒ the main thrust of this report is to improve the governance of the single market by developing a set of analytical tools to better measure the economic and regulatory performance of the single market under the pillar of the european semester dedicated to it. in this respect, such tools would be useful in supporting country-specific recommendations, the annual growth review, european council guidelines to member states and national action plans to implement the single market guidelines. the report also highlights the untapped potential of the single market in key growth sectors. i am therefore pleased that the european commission has adopted initiatives in the field of energy and is due to propose a strategy for the digital single market in the coming months. finally, i support the proposal to develop an indicator to measure the shortcomings of the single market, i.e. the additional burden borne by citizens and businesses in the context of crossborder activities due to the inadequacy of common european rules. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. a pillar of the european construction, the completion of a genuine single market is still a work in progress. the report also highlights the role of the single market as a real lever for growth. for example, the completion of the digital single market could generate 0.4% additional gdp growth and create more than 223 000 jobs by 2020. the rapporteur also rightly calls on the european commission to develop tools to measure the economic and regulatory performance of the single market and to improve the regulatory framework for smes.
in writing. ‒ this report represents everything the national front intends to fight against: the opening of the last frontiers, described as 'recalcitrant barriers', the signing of international trade agreements such as ttip, the opening of public contracts to concession contracts for private companies... i will vote against this text, which seeks to combat any protectionist impulse, which defends a union at any cost and which wants the commission to systematically monitor the docility of states in the implementation of its recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ildiko gall-pelcz, on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015. the report reiterates the european parliament's call for the establishment of a pillar on the single market in the european semester, in order to better support the real economy. the report also identifies sectors with high growth potential, such as the digital single market or public procurement and concessions. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015. more than 20 years after its creation, the single market is still not complete, mainly because member states have not fully transposed or implemented union legislation. there is a need to put more emphasis on the single market in the context of the european semester in order to better exploit its potential for growth and job creation and to place its strengthening at the heart of the european industrial strategy.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the budgetary surveillance system which allows the commission not only to scrutinise budgets and ask for amendments before they are even adopted by national parliaments, but also to push for further cuts or reforms if the proposed budgets do not suit it. i reject this process of stepping up the reduction of wages and pensions, of raising the retirement age and of continuing privatisation and liberalisation, with the only result of tearing public services and social rights apart. it is in fact in the context of the european semester that the commission regularly denounces the cdi and the monopolies of sncf and edf in france. i have supported proposals that can improve the social dimension, but i am still very critical of this tool which allows the european institutions to dictate their policies to the states in defiance of popular sovereignty. i therefore voted against these three reports.
in writing. ‒ the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015 is based on the single will to strengthen the european single market or to extend it to many sectors such as energy or digital, as well as to public procurement. governance is understood as increasing economic harmonisation and integration in order to achieve more ambitious european objectives based on supranational control of the economic policies of the member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. this is therefore an apologetic reasoning of the time, which does not provide any tangible and relevant elements for the assessment of the governance of the single market. by proposing to accelerate the introduction of competition and the liberalisation of economic sectors in the union without producing an ex post evaluation of the economic integration already undertaken, the gall-pelcz report confirms the blindness of the union in pursuing its supranational ideological project. so i strongly opposed that text.
in writing. - i vote against it. the establishment of a centralised governance of the single market is presented as a miracle cure that would allow for sustained growth and job creation. but the real result of the policies of the european union is 11.4% unemployment in the euro zone, zero economic growth and social, moral and political decay and corrupt elites. the report seeks to put the member states under the watchful eye and to oblige them to report regularly and to implement the binding recommendations of the commission. this policy of taking over is unacceptable in more than one way, and especially in view of the results.
in writing. - vote against this bill, again. as with economic policy coordination, this governance of the single market is contrary to the sovereignty of the member states. the pyramidal surveillance, with the european commission at the top, can only deprive the member states of the possibility of acting and legislating freely, and we can only oppose it.
in writing. ‒ the report finds that 'the free movement of goods, capital, services and people still holds untapped potential for businesses and citizens in terms of efficiency, growth and job creation'. once this is stated, the recommendations that follow are aimed at strengthening the single market. the aim is, of course, to 'avoid overly restrictive regulations', to reduce 'the administrative burden at european level' and to 'increase the monitoring of existing barriers in the single market for goods'. i'm sick of hearing about the liberal's cruel recipes. i vote against.
in writing. this report on the internal market and consumer protection shows the ultra-liberalism of the european institutions in pushing further towards the completion of the single market. it is worth noting that he is promoting the reduction of administrative burdens, given the legislative inflation in the european union in recent years, which threatens the legal security of companies and increases their management costs. it also calls for support for investment, as recent surveys show no recovery in the euro area, with orders for capital goods stable. in addition, disinflation leads to higher real interest rates, whereas the natural real interest rate, especially for the southern euro area countries, is likely to be negative. investment cannot be sustained and the juncker plan will fail and lead to a knock-on effect. the single market is the embodiment of the failure of the principle of free and undistorted competition and of ordo-liberalism between countries with different economic levels and unit labour costs. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the governance of the single market relating to the european semester. the european commission analyses the member states' plans for budgetary, economic and structural reforms and then makes recommendations to them for the following year. the single market is an essential component of the union's competitiveness. this market of 500 million people makes the european union the world's leading economic power. it is based on the free movement of goods, capital, services and persons. the report stresses, however, that the potential of the single market is not being fully exploited today. strengthening the single market requires faster transposition of directives by member states to strengthen the rights and information of consumers and businesses. the text also emphasises the economic potential of the completion of the digital single market.
in writing. this report on the internal market and consumer protection shows the ultra-liberalism of the european institutions in pushing further towards the completion of the single market. it is worth noting that he is promoting the reduction of administrative burdens, given the legislative inflation in the european union in recent years, which threatens the legal security of companies and increases their management costs. it also calls for support for investment, as recent surveys show no recovery in the euro area, with orders for capital goods stable. in addition, disinflation leads to higher real interest rates, whereas the natural real interest rate, especially for the southern euro area countries, is likely to be negative. investment cannot be sustained and the juncker plan will fail and lead to a knock-on effect. the single market is the embodiment of the failure of the principle of free and undistorted competition and of ordo-liberalism between countries with different economic levels and unit labour costs. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i consider the single market to be the very essence of the european union. i therefore welcomed the report on this subject. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the member states. i would consider energy or digital markets to be such areas. since my colleague ildikó gáll-pelczová's report is based on these premises, it deserves our support.
in writing. ‒ in order to encourage the recovery of european economic growth and stimulate job creation, the union must focus part of its efforts on deepening the single market. this point was highlighted by the meps in the report on the governance of the single market. i voted for this text and i support the main arguments put forward for better governance of the single market and a return to growth. the report focuses mainly on the digital single market, the free movement of goods, services, public procurement and concessions. these sectors have a high potential for growth, which is why it is important to coordinate these sectors better within the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which recalls that the single market is a key element of the european semester. by making full use of the single market, the union will be able to create the opportunities it lacks to stimulate investment and create the conditions under which citizens, consumers, investors and businesses can operate in a better context of growth and quality jobs. this means not only new initiatives but also better implementation of everything we have already planned to give substance to the single market. as for new initiatives, we look forward to the two major projects that the commission is due to launch this year: the digital single market package in may and the new single market strategy later this year. it is time for the union to regain its confidence and fully enter the digital age, to regain its place in the global economy and improve the lives of our citizens. on the digital single market package, i stress the need to improve digital skills in the union, reduce the administrative burden on businesses and ensure that consumers are afforded the same level of protection as they are used to in their traditional market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which stresses the need to put more emphasis on the single market in the context of the european semester in order to better exploit its potential for growth and job creation, and to place its strengthening at the heart of the european industrial strategy. it is therefore important that the commission sets priorities for action in the context of the annual growth review and works towards reducing administrative burdens at european level, while working more closely with the member states. priority should also be given to key sectors for growth and quality job creation such as services, transport and the digital single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which reiterates the request to dedicate a specific pillar to the single market in the framework of the european semester. unlike in previous years, the european commission did not publish a report on the integration of the single market this year in parallel with its annual review of growth in 2015. while the objective of the new juncker commission is to deepen the single market, it seems quite contradictory not to look at the very analysis of how the single market works. to support the real economy more effectively, to promote growth and to stimulate job creation, the internal market must be more closely integrated into the discussions at european level on the coordination of the economic policies of the member states. ensuring better european governance of the internal market, particularly in key sectors such as the digital single market, the free movement of goods and services, and public procurement and concessions, will help us to reconnect with growth and jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ this report is based on the fact that the main directions of economic policy must be decided in brussels. i am opposed to it in order to defend democracy and the social and political rights of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on combating child pornography on the internet calls on the member states to improve cooperation with law enforcement and to increase human and material resources, taking into account technological developments, to combat these crimes against children. i am particularly concerned about the protection of children's rights and naturally voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the fight against child pornography on the internet aimed at strengthening the protection of children's rights; in a worrying context of the development of commercial sexual exploitation of children online, including through new models of commercial distribution and transactions of child pornography, including the darknet, and in particular the phenomenon of live streaming of child pornography for payment. children are also vulnerable to acts of intimidation, harassment and "pedophile" behaviour. the european union and its member states must therefore protect and guarantee a safe environment for children and their development. protecting minors in the digital sphere requires strengthening information, from children first, parents and teachers, so that minors know how to use the internet safely.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to fight against this monstrosity of child pornography... but i will remain vigilant because "big brother" has too much tendency to confuse a criminal "dark web" with a "deep web" which is mainly used by peaceful dissidents and other whistleblowers, who have been able to reveal the scandalous nsa wiretaps in particular...
in writing. with the development of the internet and new technologies, unfortunately, practices that encourage fraud, trafficking and, more seriously, child pornography, which is the subject of this resolution, are also developing. to protect our children, it is vital that we combat this growing problem. we need to ensure more effective prosecutions, raise awareness and reduce the amount of child pornography material available online. an initiative of the european union and 55 countries has been taken in this direction, but we must go further and the member states must be able to put in place, in a spirit of international cooperation, a policy of prevention, detection and effective repression. nevertheless, i want to remain vigilant about the internet as a space for freedom of expression and about the possible control leaks that this project could bring. i therefore abstained on that proposal.
in writing. ‒ these motions for resolutions aim to tackle more effectively the worrying phenomenon of child pornography. the emergence of new technologies and communications, such as the internet, has changed child pornography practices and necessitated the strengthening of detection and response policies. while this struggle is in the best interests of child protection, it must not become a pretext for the widespread use of the internet. this is why prevention among at-risk groups needs to be improved and parents empowered. finally, the strengthening of the criminal arsenal against paedophobia must be a priority for the member states in order to condemn very firmly those who are guilty of this type of ignoble acts. while the fight against child pornography requires better coordination between member states, there is no justification for transferring their competence in this area to the union level. i voted for these motions for resolutions.
in writing. ‒ children are more likely to be victims of criminals who misuse the internet. we must fight against the images and other material of child pornography circulating on the internet. children must be protected at all costs and this requires an increased and adapted prevention campaign. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to protect children from online sexual predators. the resolution also calls for the adoption of a new law on the protection of children against the dangers of the internet. however, the internet can expose children to certain risks, as they may access or be exposed to child pornography or be exposed to child pornography. the european parliament has also called for the adoption of a new directive on the protection of children against cyber predators. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the european commission to monitor the effective implementation of existing positive law in the fight against child pornography by the competent authorities of the member states. the protection of children must be one of the main objectives of the european union and this resolution considers that there is a need to improve international cooperation in order to investigate, dismantle and prosecute pedophile networks more effectively, while giving priority to the rights and safety of the children concerned. in this context, it is also important to organise greater cooperation with companies in the multimedia and social media sector to combat these crimes. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the vote on this resolution on the fight against child pornography on the internet is a strong sign of the european parliament's commitment to this issue. in supporting this resolution, i wanted to stress the need for greater cooperation between the relevant services active in the fight against this phenomenon, in particular by relying more on europol and the european centre for the fight against cybercrime. the european parliament has therefore called for the establishment of an effective partnership and a system for exchanging information between the relevant services. information sharing is an essential aspect of this fight, as the internet promotes the blurring of national borders and develops transnational crime.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on combating child pornography on the internet calls on the member states to improve cooperation with law enforcement and to increase human and material resources, taking into account technological developments, to combat these crimes against children. i am particularly concerned about the protection of children's rights and naturally voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the fight against child pornography on the internet. the proposal aims in particular to increase the material and human resources to combat child pornography on the internet, taking account of technological developments. it also stresses the importance of cooperation between member states, the effectiveness of which still needs to be improved. i will nevertheless be vigilant about the protection of freedoms on the internet, namely freedom of expression and respect for privacy, which must be guaranteed to the vast majority of internet users who do not commit crimes.
in writing. ‒ i consider the sexual exploitation of children to be one of the worst crimes. i am in favour of the harshest punishments for those who commit such crimes, including the death penalty for the organisers of paedophile networks. i am aware that the internet is a great tool for communication and exchange, for everyone, including people with hateful practices. the text calls for the fight against this type of crime to be strengthened and, for once, for greater cooperation between national law enforcement authorities and services, rather than giving prerogatives to the commission. i am in favour of all this, although i think that the member states did not wait for the european parliament's resolution to do so. but i am mindful, thanks to the united states, that the legitimate fight against crime and criminals can degenerate into systematic, illegitimate and immoral surveillance of all citizens and a violation of their rights, freedoms and privacy. the text is unclear or even silent on this point, for example only mentioning trafficking on the dark web, but hiding the fact that chinese dissidents or whistleblowers are also housed there. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography are dramatic, monstrous and ever-increasing scourges and constitute serious violations of fundamental rights. this resolution calls for a thorough analysis of current policies in the fight against sexual abuse of children, which will be carried out in the coming months by the libe parliamentary committee, on which i sit. it is scandalous that more than half of the member states have not yet transposed directive 2011/92/eu on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography! member states must take immediate and concrete action. it is also essential that companies in the sector engage in this fight, particularly with regard to the removal of illegal content online. i therefore welcome the adoption of the cross-party resolution on the fight against child pornography on the internet.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday, i voted in favour of a resolution to combat child pornography on the internet, where 80% of the victims are children under the age of 10. child pornography, through the internet, threatens the safety of our children every day. it is therefore essential to protect children from risks on the internet, such as access to age-inappropriate services, bullying, cybercrime and child sexual exploitation. the resolution calls for greater cooperation between member states and members of the international community to combat child pornography, including by encouraging the establishment of a centralised system for the exchange of information between law enforcement agencies, judicial authorities, internet service providers, ngos and the banking sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on combating child pornography on the internet. while the current european data protection reform contains changes that will make it possible to better protect children's rights on the internet, european provisions already exist in this area. these include the 2011 directive on 'the fight against the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography'. however, more than half of the member states have not yet transposed this directive into national law. the european parliament's message to the member states is therefore clear: a mechanism has been adopted at european level, now it is your turn to play! in addition to the urgency of transposing the 2011 directive, the european parliament also defended the need to develop a comprehensive strategy in this area. this strategy covers both the investigation of offences and the prosecution of offenders, as well as the protection of child victims and the prevention of the phenomenon. given the transnational dimension of the scourge, this comprehensive approach obviously must not stop at the frontiers of europe but be extended to the international level.
in writing. ‒ child pornography on the internet is a scourge that thrives in the absence of harmonised national legislation. this resolution is a wake-up call. the member states of the union and indeed all the states in the world must propose common solutions to put an end to this phenomenon which threatens our children. you should know, 80% of the victims are children under 10. the establishment of special cells within our police departments is a good thing for tracking down pedophiles. however, i remain convinced that upstream action to hold internet service providers accountable would greatly enhance our capacity to prevent and combat child pornography. as with terrorism, we always return to the age-old debate of internet freedom, namely: should information be framed and limited? in this particular case, where minors are put at risk, i believe that limiting access to illegal content and removing it is fully justified.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on combating child pornography on the internet calls on the member states to improve cooperation with law enforcement and to increase human and material resources, taking into account technological developments, to combat these crimes against children. i voted in favour of this text, considering that child pornography on the internet is one of the scourges of the 19th century, while remaining vigilant on the subject of individual freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on combating child pornography on the internet, which affects 80% of children under the age of 10. the text recalls in particular the responsibility of the digital industry to prevent access to illegal content and remove it at the request of the authorities, as well as the duty of member states to transpose a 2011 directive on the subject, less than half of them having done so despite the deadline set for december 2013. the resolution was adopted by an overwhelming majority of 606 votes in favour, 4 against and 67 abstentions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the fight against child pornography on the internet. the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, including child pornography, constitute extremely serious violations of fundamental rights, in particular the right of the child to protection and care necessary for his or her well-being, as enshrined in the 1989 united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it is our duty today to launch an information campaign involving all relevant stakeholders to increase children's empowerment and to help parents and teachers understand and manage online risks, and to protect children's online safety. it is also necessary to support member states in setting up programmes to prevent online sexual abuse, to encourage awareness-raising campaigns on responsible behaviour on social media and to encourage the main search engines and social media networks to take a proactive approach to protecting children's safety online.
in writing. ‒ these motions for resolutions aim to combat child pornography more effectively. the emergence of new communication technologies, such as the internet and smartphones, has changed child pornography practices, which requires a change in response and detection. if this is in the public interest, then the full guardianship of the net should not be established under the cover of this struggle. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the idea of information campaigns and real ways to combat online images, sexual abuse and other illegal practices concerning children on the net. this is a necessity and a challenge that is all the more complex because the perpetrators of these crimes, often hidden behind encrypted information, are difficult to trace. data is constantly evolving and changing, and there are no tools, including tools to prevent potential cyber predators from taking action. however, care must be taken that this fight is not carried out at the expense of the children's rights themselves. the un convention on the rights of the child, for example, ensures freedom of expression and the right of access to information online for children. this resolution tends to present a hasty security vision, at the risk of approving measures that destroy freedom. i cannot concede that the all-round exchange of information is the only key to the success of this battle against cyber predators. however, in view of the theme, i am voting in favour of encouraging the fight against child pornography.
in writing. these motions for resolutions aim to combat child pornography more effectively. the emergence of new communication technologies, such as the internet, has changed child pornography practices, which requires a change in response and detection. if this struggle is a compelling reason of general interest, then under the cover of this struggle, a complete network guardianship should not be established. it is also necessary to raise awareness of the situation among the public at risk (through prevention among parents and children), reduce the amount of child pornography data available on the net... however, the initiative of the european union and 55 countries does not go far enough and member states need to coordinate their detection and enforcement practices. i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which i co-signed on behalf of the epp group. the fight against the scourge of child pornography, which takes advantage of the lack of harmonisation of legislation between states and involves children under 10 years of age in 80% of cases, is a global issue. i have done a lot of research on this when i was minister for family affairs. i am actively pursuing this commitment at european level and i am glad that europe is taking up this challenge and showing determination. the resolution stresses that it is the responsibility of the digital industry, especially internet service providers (isps), to prevent access to illegal content and to remove it at the request of the authorities. it also reminds member states of their duty to fully transpose directive 2011/93/eu on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, which gives member states the means to harmonise their legislation against paedophilia. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to launch an information campaign aimed at children, teachers and parents to raise their awareness of online risks. it also advocates strengthening the means of reporting child abuse available to children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution by five political groups on the fight against child pornography on the internet, which affects 80% of children under the age of 10. it recalls the digital industry's responsibility to prevent access to illegal content and to remove it at the request of the authorities. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to launch an information campaign for children, teachers and parents to raise awareness of the risks online and to strengthen the means of reporting child abuse. finally, it recalls the duty of member states to transpose directive 2011/93/eu on the prevention of the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. the deadline for transposition was 18 december. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the single european act. france has transposed it by a law of 5 august 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because child pornography is a scourge still present in europe and it is our duty to fight it by all means. in this context, i particularly welcome the initiatives in the text to hold internet service providers accountable by preventing access to illegal content and those calling on the european commission and the member states to launch an information campaign aimed at children, teachers and parents to raise awareness of online risks.
in writing. with the development of the internet and new technologies, unfortunately, practices that encourage fraud, trafficking and, more seriously, child pornography, which is the subject of this resolution, are also developing. to protect our children, it is vital that we combat this growing problem. we need to ensure more effective prosecutions, raise awareness and reduce the amount of child pornography material available online. an initiative by the european union and 55 countries has been taken in this respect, but member states must be able to put in place, in a spirit of international cooperation and not under the aegis of a supranational body, a policy of prevention, detection and effective repression. i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ today, too many children in the eu are affected by child pornography. this is a serious problem for which the european parliament must actively mobilize and accelerate awareness at european and national level. parliament adopted a resolution to combat child pornography. it was important for me to vote in favour of this text, which deals with a subject which is of great concern to european citizens. the resolution stresses the responsibility of the commission and the member states to inform and raise awareness among parents and children about the risks of the web. the text also highlights the digital industry's responsibility to prevent access to illegal content, and even remove it at the request of the authorities.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, which i fully support, the european parliament recalls the need to combat child pornography and its dissemination on the internet effectively. we recall the need to implement a comprehensive strategy adapted to the new information and communication technologies in order to provide a more effective criminal response. our approach is part of a desire to adapt our legislation to technological developments used by paedophiles (smartphones, encryption, the establishment of hidden data storage bases, the development and expansion of new online child pornography material, etc.). so, we need to adapt our criminal responses to better protect our children and their rights. the resolution stresses the need for all states to transpose the 2011 directive on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography and to better protect children's personal data. in order to combat child pornography effectively, parliament called for better interstate and european cooperation, through europol and the european cybercrime centre and in collaboration with companies in the new technology sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on combating child pornography on the internet. since the measures taken by the member states against online content have not always been sufficiently effective and since this problem goes beyond the borders of a single state, we recall that the european union has a clear objective to protect children, especially on the internet. we demand an ambitious approach so that law enforcement agencies have the legal instruments to investigate, prosecute and protect victims. prevention is also essential to ensure a safe environment for children's development. at the same time, we call on the commission, the states and all relevant actors to launch information campaigns and to set up prevention programmes against online sexual abuse. we will continue to monitor this important issue and to carry out a thorough and regular analysis of the current policy framework in the fight against child pornography.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which recalls the digital industry's responsibility to prevent access to illegal content and remove it at the request of the authorities. the text also refers to the obligation for member states to transpose directive 2011/93/eu on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, as less than half of the member states have fully transposed it. finally, through this text, we call on the commission and the member states to launch an information campaign aimed at children, teachers and parents to raise their awareness of the risks online; it is also essential to strengthen the means of reporting child abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for urgent action to ensure that all child pornography on the internet is promptly removed and reported to law enforcement agencies. according to ngos, 80% of child pornography victims are under the age of 10 and the number of children affected is increasing. the authorities must be able to have sufficient legal instruments to investigate and prosecute criminals. the text calls for the digital industry to also take up its responsibilities in this fight, to prevent access to illegal content and to remove it at the request of the authorities. the last member states that have not yet done so are invited to rapidly transpose directive 2011/93/eu on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children. finally, we need to strengthen the means of prevention, information and reporting of child abuse to ensure safer use of the internet.
in writing. ‒ what a waste of time it has been 10 years since the european parliament's first report on this subject. if we do not mobilize all our forces, we will lose this battle against child pornography on the internet. because everything is going faster and faster today, with the dark web or the deep web. we know the answers. first we need a country by country report. secondly, we must work on a european cooperation plan and take a number of measures. we need to raise awareness among parents and children, train teachers and set up a european green telephone number on this issue. we also need systems for blocking and filtering websites. it is clear that europol's resources are paltry. they really need to be strengthened to better track and find predators, to better identify victims and to facilitate data sharing. to protect our children, we need this unwavering mobilization, not just from us, the political leaders, but from society as a whole.
in writing. ‒ protecting children from the threat of child criminals is a priority. it is up to the states to decide on policy in this area and the union to understand that its laxity, by prohibiting states from putting this protection in place, makes it the best ally of those who are involved in this horrible traffic.
in writing. ‒ the fight against the posting of images of sexual abuse or other illegal practices concerning children on the internet is urgent and necessary. child pornography, the sexual exploitation of children and any other similar practice constitute major violations of children's rights and violence against them. i therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament wants the european union to act in this area and that measures leading to the closure of sites disseminating child pornography material be taken on the basis of a judicial decision. however, as is often the case in this area, this text calls for measures which are fraught with security and freedom-threatening distortions and may jeopardise the protection of personal data, with the consequent risk of restricting the exercise of fundamental rights and civil liberties. so is the exchange of information between states, civil society organizations, social media companies, parents, teachers, social workers, or the surveillance of all by all. and since i know that child protection is often used as a trojan horse to restrict freedoms more widely, i ultimately abstained on this resolution, because the protection of children's rights must not be exploited.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, when i hear you and see my positions, i feel i am in exactly the same situation. from the moment i express a view that is opposed to your assembly, i am absolutely demonized. so ask yourself not only about russia, but also about your assembly and how it reacts when it is confronted with a little opposition simply to remind it of the truth. because what i say is what our president says, among other french people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament, lacking a vision of the future and of peace in our unity, has already ruled. we have members of parliament who are both police officers and judges. boris nemtsov had barely been cowardly murdered when our chairman of the foreign affairs committee condemned "russia and putin's gulags". i wish he'd been with me when i was fighting the real bolshevik gulags. boris nemtsov is not the leader of the opposition in russia. he represents 4% of the voters. the leader of the opposition is the communist party, which represents 20 percent. the ultra-nationalist jirinovski is at 9%. these parties are totally opposed to the current europe and putin, believe me, compared to them, is frankly a moderate. we would do better to support the minsk agreements and the peace agreement and not to respond to provocations.
mr president, i would ask only one thing - and i hope we can remain friends - i would ask my colleague mr brok to withdraw what he has said. otherwise, of course, i'll have to sue him - which i'll win - for what he said, which is absolutely defamatory. so, colleague, are you ready or not to retract what you said about defamation?
madam president, that explanation is entirely justified, but our rules of procedure allow us to use blue cards even when we are on the list of speakers. so if you say that i cannot use a blue card because i am on the list of speakers, that does not seem to me to be a legitimate justification. if you consider that from the moment i demand one, no one will be allowed to present one, then i hear, of course, your justification.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the european parliament's resolution on the policy of catherine ashton, then high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, you welcomed the association agreements signed with moldova, georgia and, above all, ukraine. your plan is to integrate some of these countries into nato, in contradiction to the commitments made by the europeans and americans to mikhail gorbachev. nato, nato, nato, this is pathetic! at no time is a strategy for the european union conceived independently envisaged. with washington's blessing, you tickle the russian bear and attempt to eliminate its influence in its immediate vicinity. moreover, to this end you have dangerously supported a government including neo-nazis, who, as if by chance, have pursued a policy against the russian-speaking minority in ukraine. you have helped to bring about a full-scale civil war in this country. this situation must not degenerate into another war on european soil. a change of strategy is absolutely necessary if europe is to remain at peace. no power on this continent should have imperialist aims, no power should be demonized!
madam president, madam high representative, yes, this report does establish what an ambition for a common foreign and security policy can be, knowing that for the construction of the european union, it is undoubtedly a test, and the most difficult one. we have heard it again a moment ago. what would the founders have thought of some people who were worried about the future of the disputes over gibraltar between the english and the spanish, in a continent which has experienced two centuries of tragedy and has managed to overcome them by building the union? i would like to draw your attention to three or four conditions for the success of the work you are doing and for our full support. firstly, we must indeed both bring our european policies into line and ask the states to overcome their reluctance, their 'go it alone' policy and their selfishness. some people do not realise that by weakening europe they are now weakening themselves on the international scene. in this respect, we will be at your side if you need help in the face of a number of member states which still consider the common foreign and security policy to be a national affair. secondly, we must of course coordinate our action more closely with that of our allies. but it is important to understand - because we are europe and we have different cultural and social values - that this better coordination must not prevent us from marking our independence and autonomy in all areas of the world where we are involved, vis-à-vis some of our allies. thirdly, of course, there is no right without force. we have known this for centuries and the president of the commission was right when he said that the aim is to strengthen the operational capacity. fourthly, we must increase our presence in the south even more.
in writing. the annual report of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to the european parliament is proof that the union's attempts at diplomacy are doomed to failure, because they are based on an idealistic attitude and compromised in submission to international organisations and foreign powers. the text before us is clearly aimed at russia, against which some wish to develop a health cord by forming reverse partnerships with its neighbours. this vision is clearly not in the interests of nato and the transatlantic alliance and is contrary to the interests of the european nation states. an equally worrying dimension for the independence of the european nations is the expressed desire to create a world order that is not defined in concrete terms but is marked ideologically. the means to achieve this fatal step for peoples and their freedoms is partly described through the dream of a single market for cybersecurity products. finally, the desire to bring ever more states together around a supranational structure shows that the union has not found the tools of power it claimed to possess and that only economic integration would make it possible to pursue these goals.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, as we do every year, we are examining this report on human rights and democracy in the world. our rapporteur, mr panzeri, has chosen to make a thematic report which avoids the catalogue side and a lot of double standards. i thank him for that. there are positive points in this report, but the european union is not without its faults in this area and is increasingly ill-placed to teach lessons. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment. but why not support an international, legally binding mechanism to end the impunity of multinational corporations, which was voted down at the un by member states? why not denounce the disastrous effect of structural adjustment plans on economic and social rights? how can we understand the terms 'democracy' and 'human rights' when we are advocating, without any nuance, cooperation with third countries, particularly in the field of migration, and in particular the khartoum process with the dictators of the horn of africa? finally, as you know, mr panzeri, i have a problem with the annex on human rights defenders. it is necessarily restrictive and therefore endangers all those not named. the gue/ngl group will therefore abstain on this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the panzeri report is proof that the categorical imperative of human rights has become the european union's foreign policy. our nations have been asked to abandon their diplomacy, which they have called nationalist. they were asked to abandon the pursuit of their specific interests in favor of nothing more than the promotion of an ideology. the european union does not aim for power on the international stage. it does not aspire to become a strong pole in a multipolar world. it has only one ambition: to give the whole world moral lessons, to export its culture of death everywhere with the promotion of abortion, with the weakening of the natural framework of civilizations based on the natural family. the spread of lgbt poison is the central objective of the panzeri report. and so that the poison instilled by the far left can be digested by the ppe group, it is diluted in the general denunciation of attacks on human rights, which targets, first and foremost, the geopolitical adversaries of the united states, namely russia and china. the sincere defenders of human rights who are on the side of life will not be fooled. they will vote against the panzeri report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were asked to vote on the report by mr tarabella, a belgian socialist, whom our ump colleague, mrs le grip, thought it appropriate to congratulate on behalf of the ppe group. tomorrow, it is the report of another socialist, mr panzeri, that his so-called opponents in the epp group will probably vote as one man. i voted against the tarabella report and i shall vote against the panzeri report tomorrow, because both promote a dangerous ideology: the ideology of gender and its accompanying ultra-minority communitarian demands. the panzeri report also confirms that the european union is spending its time lecturing the whole world on human rights, while at the same time flouting the basic rules of democracy by not respecting the sovereignty of nations or the will of the people. article 165 of the report condemns the free and sovereign choice of the croatian people to constitutionalise marriage between a man and a woman. yes, it may surprise you, it may even scandalize you, but the result of the croatian referendum in december 2013 was respected. that's what democracy is all about. it will soon be the tenth anniversary of the rejection of the lisbon treaty by the french and the dutch, and i see that you still have the same contempt for the democratic expression.
madam president, i should like to focus on the consequences of the situation in libya for the european union's migration policy. if i understand correctly, what you called the threat to immigration. in 2014, more than 270 000 irregular border crossings were recorded by frontex. that's more than in 2011, and we know that libya is now one of the main, if not the main, gateways to europe. the question is, why? so, yes, because there is no more debate in libya. but yes, also because the european borders are becoming less and less permeable, better and better controlled, and we are increasingly able to identify those who cross the borders. yes, also because of the international situation: these men, women and children who are fleeing not only from conflict but also from repression. terrible situations, you said. they are syrians, but also eritreans, ethiopians, somalis, sudanese. these are potential asylum seekers, and it is with their state, with their dictator that we want to deal up front with this illegal immigration and fight against trafficking, in which these states are parties. so i have only one question: what are you really negotiating with these states in the khartoum process?
in writing. libya is in chaos. christians are being slaughtered by the local branch of the islamic state, four filipino nurses were recently kidnapped and the sending of coalition soldiers to the field is being considered. these tragic events demonstrate once again that the overthrow of colonel gaddafi, far from bringing democratic values and respect for human rights to libya, has in fact plunged the country into a veritable civil and tribal war that is fuelling the whims of islamist jihadists. that is why the west must learn all the lessons and re-establish diplomatic relations with bashar al-assad to prevent the libyan chaos from being exported to syria.
for the greens/efa group madam president, what i wanted to tell you is that in the acp context we received a delegation of malian imams two weeks ago. and their cry of alarm was, "help us, because there are more and more jihadists with kalashnikovs coming to the mosques". so it is true that their first concern is safety. but not only that. it is also the development of their country and, in particular, of this whole part called the sawâd. this peace and reconciliation agreement is an opportunity for us which we support very much. but, you've seen that there are a whole series of associations that first ask for a public consultation before it is ratified. so this means that the european union - you said it - must really support minusma, but at the same time it must have an action plan to give this population a future. there is no public service. there's nothing left in these parts. if the european union does not devote all its energy and financial resources to ensuring that there are public services, i do not see how the population can accept the fact that there are still movements with kalashnikovs that threaten the population. it is therefore urgent that the european union should become more involved.
in writing. strengthening military and security cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states is essential if we are to effectively combat the global terrorist threat and extinguish the hotbeds of jihadism. we must stand together if we are to block foreign fighters, dry up the sources of terrorism funding, stop the arms trade and defeat the islamic state group. we must also strengthen our political and cultural cooperation to curb jihadist propaganda and to stop the recruitment of local and foreign fighters, but also to defend the human rights and religious minorities in these regions. the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the european external action service and the league of arab states and the announcement of the strengthening of the strategic dialogue between the union and the league of arab states on 19 january marked an important step in our commitment to combating terrorism.
madam president, we are facing a very difficult situation today, namely the rise of anti-semitism, islamophobia and violent extremism. while history reminds us how various forms of racism and discrimination have persisted through the centuries, the racism that is developing today is subtle. in addition to violence and other attacks, we must also point to the impact of racist speech. the thinly veiled allusions, the small sentences and other insidious forms of expression are increasingly trivializing uncomplicated racist speech, whether it is expressed in the street, in political debate, in the media or on the internet and social networks. thus, uninhibited speech entered the public debate. it is a series of fears and simplistic recipes that distort reality in the service of an ideology. in this context, political leaders have a special responsibility. while they obviously have to provide answers to overcome the economic and social crisis, prejudice and marginalisation, they are also more than ever charged with condemning racist speech and promoting constructive intercultural dialogue. in this public discourse, the media also have a role to play, which is essential in promoting mutual understanding between different religious, cultural and traditional communities. the media must resist stereotypes and shortcuts that are as false as they are dangerous. the european union has introduced and initiated a wide range of measures to combat the various forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia, but is this sufficient to counter racist hate speech? what are the current tools available to combat the growing phenomenon of verbal abuse on the internet? more broadly, as it did in 2011 to promote the development of national roma integration strategies, does the commission intend to propose a framework for national strategies to combat in a comprehensive manner the different forms of racism and discrimination affecting a particular community?
madam president, yes, for several years now, a climate of hatred and violence has been rising within the european union. the rejection of the other is an easy way out in times of economic, social and political crisis. racism must be fought together, without hierarchy, or it may be used against each other. they each have their own story, but they're all fueled by the same fantasies and a lot of stereotypes, and they often go hand in hand. anti-semitism and islamophobia feed off each other. since the attacks in new york, muslims have been increasingly stigmatized and with them, all those who do not have the right skin color, whether they are believers or not. women are particularly affected. the majority of them are european citizens and have lived in our territories for a long time in peace. we're conflating the issue of migrants. they're trying to make it look like a clash of civilizations. behind each of them, one sees a fundamentalist, or even a terrorist, as if islam itself were a vehicle of radicalism. they are asked to dissociate themselves from acts of terrorism committed in the name of their faith, even though it is being hijacked, as king abdullah ii so well said yesterday. they are the new dangerous classes, and unfortunately, many governments are participating in this stigmatization. i am an atheist, i defend freedom of conscience and therefore freedom to believe or not to believe, the separation of religious and political, but also the right to criticize religions freely, whatever they may be, as any opinion. these values are the key to "living together".
madam president, i fear that every day brings us a little closer to the great rifts in our societies, because, you see, it is a diabolical mechanism that is being set up. it is fracturing our societies, and this trap that is closing in on our democracies, we must at all costs thwart it. the surest way to defeat it is to join our values, to fight with the greatest firmness against all racism and to fight with equal vigour the religious fanatics and the fascists who, as we know, prosper in common. it is also, as commissioner hahn said, a matter of putting culture before ignorance. the air in europe today is unbreathable, and we know all too well what it means. it foretells the worst because on this european continent we know how monsters are formed and can be reborn, but we also know how to fight them. that is the battle we are called to fight today.
madam president, three years ago, almost every day in toulouse, french children were being killed outside the ozar hatorah school because they were jews. there was the jewish museum in brussels, there was the synagogue in copenhagen, there was the double murder of a french couple who lived in créteil, in the paris region, there was of course very recently and it shook the whole of europe and beyond the whole world the horrible and cowardly attacks in paris and the drama of the jews killed in the kosher supermarket. of course, we must strongly denounce the growth of anti-semitism, the violence directed against the jews living in our territories. we must call for a reawakening of consciences, we must work to strengthen our arsenal of defence of our humanistic and european values, which we believe to be universal values. we must work to coordinate our efforts in the struggle and to assert our solidarity, our compassion and our sympathy for all the jews of europe, who are currently the most persecuted community in the union, the most exposed to murder, discrimination and stigmatisation on the grounds of their religion. but let us not underestimate the seriousness of the rise of islamophobia, of all forms of racial and religious hatred. it is really about hatred and human stupidity, and there are weapons, of course, and an arsenal of repression that we must put together and strengthen, but above all, i believe, there is education and the duty of memory. there is a gross ignorance and a guilty lack of awareness of what the history of europe has been, of a number of facts which have shaken our continent and marked our consciences. education must be developed, memory must be awakened. education in tolerance, of course, education in acceptance of the other. education is one of the levers to fight against stupidity and hatred.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for your comments. you have rightly pointed out that the state of the bar stock is a matter of concern. the european union must respond and put in place coherent management measures. the european commission has recently, as you said, taken emergency measures to close pelagic trawl fisheries from 26 january to 30 april, i.e. during the spawning season. these emergency measures are temporary and are not intended to be permanent. we must therefore prepare now for the future and look to the long term. i have therefore decided to table a resolution on behalf of the committee on fisheries containing proposals for the sustainable management of the bar. we call for a multiannual management plan to be drawn up at european level, in accordance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. this plan will have to be based on sound scientific advice. this requires a precise assessment of the state and demarcation of the stock, as well as the migration patterns of the species and the precise breeding sites. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to rely on the european maritime and fisheries fund, which provides for significant funding for the collection of scientific data. it is also necessary to assess precisely the share of the various trades fishing for cod and the share of recreational fishing in these catches. we need this information to make good decisions. when we work on a management plan for the bar, we will have to look at the different types of measures that can be taken. as you have just said, there are several options, such as setting a total allowable catch (tac), introducing a minimum landing size or introducing biological rest periods during spawning, among others. these are, at this stage, only options and it will be up to the legislator to make decisions in the light of scientific advice. i would like to take this opportunity to remind the council that management plans are entirely a matter for the codecision procedure. a management plan for the bar must take account of commercial fishing, but also of recreational fishing, as you said, which accounts for almost a quarter of the catches. i think it is necessary to introduce quantitative limits for this fishery. the measures to be taken must be prepared by involving closely all the parties involved in the cod fishery, in a spirit of compromise. the advisory councils will have an important role to play in this respect. running the bar is everybody's business. it is only together that we can find solutions to protect this beautiful species while preserving the activities of those who live in it.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr finch, i have two questions. first of all, have you read the resolution? i don't think you are. secondly, it seems to me that you want to renationalize the fisheries policy, yes or no?
in writing. the european union has made a historic breakthrough by setting itself the objective of maximum sustainable yield. it must now be accompanied by appropriate management measures. it is a year ago today that i spoke in plenary to alert the commission to the urgency of applying the mdr to the bar. one year later, the species is still in free fall the ices recommends reducing fishing pressure by 60%. in the absence of timely decision-making, decisions are taken in a hurry and through implementing measures. we have to see every year the urgency of regulating this fishery. bar fishing should not be an exception. they too need long-term visibility. the mdgs are not a charm, we must have effective tools, and i call for quotas. all activities must contribute to the effort, both professional and recreational, since the ec estimates 25% of the total catch to be recreational fishing. professional fishing cannot be the adjustment variable for the mdr.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, how important are the sessions of the un human rights council (hrc) for this assembly? i wonder what it is. once again, we are holding this debate at a time when the 28th session of the hrc has already started and many important reports have been adopted. once again, the resolution before us has little regard for its agenda. however, it does address issues that the european union would be well advised to take into account, such as the situation in eritrea or the effects of external debt on the full enjoyment of all human rights, and this, as the un high commissioner for human rights has just reminded us, is that economic, social and cultural rights have suffered from austerity policies, which have disproportionately weighed on the right of peoples to participate in decisions affecting their lives. it's all in that sentence. but to be interested in it, to work on it, to formulate recommendations in this area would also mean pointing the finger at the effects of european policies, both within the european union and in its relations with third countries. so we are ignoring them and sticking to generalizations that are more in line with the priorities of the union than with those of the hrc, even if this means emphasizing the "learning side" and fuelling cultural relativism. that is not our vision of multilateral relations, nor is it the vision of the united nations. i would like to add, commissioner, that i would have liked to have heard the same strong condemnation of the violation of international law for israel and palestine as you have heard for ukraine. i would like you to condemn with the same firmness what is happening in the republic of sudan, where civilians are being bombed by the government in power. finally, as regards migrants, invite the high representative to ask the member states to finally sign the international convention on migrant workers.
mr president, the european union is not realistic in its defence of human rights. the position it has just taken before the united nations is proof of this. i will give two examples. the first example concerns syria. the union rightly condemns the violations of human rights committed there, but it refers back to bashar al-assad and islamist terrorism. the union's interest is to take a clear stand in favour of bashar al-assad, because he is our bulwark against the islamic state. if his regime collapses, syria will become a base for terrorists, who will use it to increase the number of attacks in europe, such as the one perpetrated against charlie hebdo. the second example concerns ukraine. the union condemns russia without any qualification and takes its position along the lines of the united states. mr juncker even wants to create a european army against russia. it would be more realistic to recognize that the people of crimea have sovereignly decided to join russia, and let france and germany try to restore peace in eastern ukraine. diplomacy is a matter for sovereign states, not the european union.
mr president, i have just returned from the middle east, where i met with leading political and religious figures, including the maronite patriarch, the syrian patriarch and the chaldean bishop of beirut. the situation of all christians, not just the assyrians, is absolutely tragic in these lands. but what can you do? i think we should help them defend themselves. the right of self-defence is absolute in the face of such barbarism against people, cultural heritage and humanity. in this context, the silence of the arab countries is absolutely deafening. what is the arab league doing? are the arab league countries - on the grounds, for example, that they are sunni majority - actually complicit with the islamic state? we urgently need international military intervention, which is not necessarily the work of the west, but we must help in every way, including their security and, of course, also in material terms, the unfortunate refugees, whose disappearance would mean the retreat of our civilization by several thousand kilometres.
in writing. i am glad that the so-called "islamic state" (is) is unanimously against him, but i am sorry that it is taking so long to acknowledge our past mistakes and to review our strategy in the region, especially with regard to our dangerous links with qatar and saudi arabia. it is urgent, however, to put an end to the heinous persecution of christians by daesh and the abominable destruction of the cultural heritage of this region, which has seen the birth and flowering of so many great civilizations. the images of the sacking of the mosul museum and even more so the bulldozing of the ancient assyrian city of nimroud will forever be etched in my memory... and i hold the americans jointly responsible for these priceless losses, because it was they who, with their simple ideas, caused chaos in this highly complex region.
in writing. for many months, daesh has been terrorising ethnic and religious minorities through attacks, killings and abductions. this situation is intolerable and it is now essential that the international community commits itself more strongly, and immediately, to combating these acts and to recalling the inalienable right of all religious and ethnic minorities, and in particular that of the christians of iraq and syria, to continue to live in dignity and security and to be able to continue to practice their religion. i am deeply shocked by this chaotic situation and its evolution. daesh not only attacks minorities and peoples, but also humanity by destroying symbols and cultural heritage in its path. i call on the european union, the member states and the international community to strengthen their cooperation in order to provide as soon as possible assistance to these religious and ethnic minorities, to combat this threat, and to promote and defend our fundamental freedoms.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are surprised by the proliferation of war theatres around the world. we are seeing a spread of fear, which is undermining democracies and causing more and more citizens to turn inward. it is not necessary to remind you that south sudan, the youngest country in the world, is the object and the bloody scene of fighting between brothers: thousands of children killed, children raped, raped, little girls enslaved, twelve thousand children kidnapped to become soldiers... that's the horror of it. it is not enough to say so and sign resolutions and declarations, we must act and not leave the international community inert in the face of this disaster. this resolution calls for the resumption of negotiations, an immediate end to these violations, which are a disgrace to the international community, and access to humanitarian assistance.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an important problem today: the issue of land grabbing, which particularly affects tanzania. following a large-scale project by the united arab emirates in the serengeti province, more than 40,000 maasai are to be evicted from their land in the coming weeks. unfortunately, this situation is not unique to tanzania. indeed, many projects threaten the traditional ways of life of pastoral communities, especially the maasai in tanzania. in our resolution, we strongly condemn the illegal displacement of rural communities and the destruction of their traditional way of life. we call on the tanzanian authorities to respect the rights of indigenous peoples and to protect the rights of the maasai, including their ancestral lands. we also call on the european union to promote good land governance and support transparency in large-scale investments that have a land impact in tanzania.
mr president, a point of order, please, on annex xi, rule 5. we would like to know whether members of the european parliament will be informed of mr schulz's referral to the european anti-fraud office (olaf) of his only accredited assistant, herbert hansen, who is based in the aachen region and is the head of the spd travel agency. this is of course a situation which may create or at least give rise to the suspicion of a conflict of interest.
mr president, with the agreement of the rapporteur, i would like to add an oral amendment to paragraph 47 to give the correct name to the terrorist groups mentioned in africa and, in particular, to replace the mention of the mujao terrorist group with the al-mourabitoune group. this would give the following amendment in the english version, after "al-qaida in the islamic maghreb":al-mourabitoun born from the fusion of the... mujao and mokhtar belmokhtars masked men brigade. for the record, this terrorist group has claimed responsibility for the attack in bamako last week, in which a belgian and a french citizen were murdered.
mr president, yesterday this house voted on a new masterpiece of reporting. the establishment of a centralised governance of the single market is again presented as the miracle cure for the ills of our europe, which would certainly allow for sustained growth and job creation. but how can we give any credence to your solutions when all your smoking theories are based on the study of a totally unbalanced and, above all, not objective ratio of the cost of non-europe? how do you expect the people of europe to continue to follow you, an elite disconnected from reality and, above all, often against the views expressed by our fellow citizens? the real result of your policies is this: 11.4% unemployment in the euro zone, zero economic growth and the social, moral and political decay of our civilization. the report seeks to put the member states under the watchful eye, to oblige them to report regularly and to implement the binding recommendations of the commission. that is why we voted against this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the murder of boris nemtsov is a tragedy which must not be exploited in any way. this bellicose and excessive text is being used as a pretext for a legitimate attack on russia. the text insidiously accuses the russian government on the grounds that the murder took place in a protected area. the same suspicion extends to the smolensk plane crash in april 2010, which claimed the life of the polish president. russian politics as a whole is therefore on the edge. despite the undeniable popular support for mr putin in his own country, we are being led to believe that russian society is suffocating under a vile domination. look for the mistake! finally, the proposal to launch an international inquiry is absolutely unacceptable and would constitute a denial of russian sovereignty. after russia, why not china? there are fewer volunteers. in contrast to this arrogant stance, the european union would benefit from building a respectful and lasting relationship with a major continental power.
in writing. - i voted against this shameful resolution which disregards the russian judicial process. once again russia is blamed for all the ills, especially the "climate of hatred and tension in europe". when will the eurocrats stop systematically adding fuel to the fire?
in writing. the assassination of russian opposition leader boris nemtsov is a tragedy and we all agree. however, care must be taken not to exploit this murder. unfortunately, this text is used to attack the russian government and president putin (who is still popular with his people) and indirectly accuses him of murder. on the other hand, the proposal to launch an international inquiry constitutes a denial of russian sovereignty. the european union should instead develop lasting ties with russia, so as not to become systematically aligned with us policy. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is a testament to the anti-russian hysteria in the european parliament. without directly holding vladimir putin responsible for the murder of boris nemtsov, the draft resolutions tend to make him indirectly responsible for all the alleged ills of russian society and accuse him of creating a 'climate of hatred and tension' which is believed to have been the cause of the crime. even before the investigation into the circumstances of this murder has been opened, such allegations are particularly misplaced and highlight the atlanticist manichaeism of the european institutions. i have of course voted against these motions for resolutions.
in writing. - i voted against this shameful resolution against russia. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. russia is thus singled out as the sole responsible party for the "climate of hatred and tension in europe", an authoritarian state with arbitrary political justice. this is a manichaeism which should not surprise us any longer, coming from an openly atlanticist parliament which is gradually turning into a real party of war, accumulating outrageous attacks on the russian federation. "when a government prepares for war, it describes its opponents as monsters".
in writing. ‒ this resolution strongly condemns the murder of boris nemtsov, former prime minister, a leading russian opposition figure and a strong critic of the war in ukraine. as this murder is in addition to the growing number of political assassinations and unsolved suspicious deaths perpetrated in russia since 1998, it is necessary that an independent international investigation, conducted within the framework of the osce, the council of europe and the united nations, sheds full light on this murder. concerned about the climate of violence against opposition activists, human rights activists, minorities and neighbouring countries, which has worsened in russia in recent years, i believe that the council, the commission and the member states must put in place a unified policy with a strong common message on the importance of human rights in eu-russia relations and the need to put an end to the repression of freedom of expression, assembly and association in russia. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the murder of boris nemtsov is a tragedy, which should not be exploited in any way. this bellicose and excessive text is being used as a pretext for a legitimate attack on russia. the text insidiously accuses the russian government on the grounds that the murder site was in a protected area. the same suspicion extends to the smolensk plane crash in april 2010, which claimed the life of the polish president. russian politics as a whole is on the line. despite the undeniable popular support for vladimir putin in his own country, we are being led to believe that russian society is suffocating under a vile domination. finally, the proposal to launch an international inquiry is absolutely unacceptable and would constitute a denial of russian sovereignty. in contrast to this arrogant stance, the european union would benefit from building a respectful and lasting relationship with a major continental power.
in writing. ‒ the murder of boris nemtsov is a tragedy, which should not be exploited in any way. this bellicose and excessive text is being used as a pretext for a legitimate attack on russia. the text insidiously accuses the russian government on the grounds that the murder site was in a protected area. the same suspicion extends to the smolensk air crash in april 2010, which cost the polish president his life! russian politics as a whole is on the line. despite the undeniable popular support for mr putin in his own country, we are being led to believe that russian society is suffocating under a vile domination: look for the error. finally, the proposal to launch an international inquiry is absolutely unacceptable and would constitute a denial of russian sovereignty. in contrast to this arrogant stance, the european union would benefit from building a respectful and lasting relationship with a major continental power.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the assassination of the russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia. the draft resolution pays tribute to boris nemtsov, strongly condemns his murder and calls for an independent international inquiry. it also called for the release of all political prisoners. this proposal was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution strongly condemns the assassination of boris nemtsov and is logically concerned about the deleterious climate in russia for any citizen opposition due to the intense and crude propaganda currently being implemented by the russian government. however, by calling for "an independent international investigation", the text sends a message of mistrust of russia from the european institutions. it reinforces a logic of confrontation used by the russian authorities to divert the population's attention from economic problems and serious breaches of the rule of law. i therefore voted against this text, preferring the resolution which we tabled with my group, which condemns the numerous abuses against the rule of law in russia without entering into a confrontation which leads nowhere.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution "on the assassination of boris nemtsov, a russian opposition figure, and the state of democracy in russia", as did other members of the national front. of course, all violence, let alone murder, is wrong. it is even more worrying that this is the murder of an opposition politician. the european parliament could very well vote a resolution in which it would express its concern and state that it awaits the results of the judicial inquiry that will be carried out. the political groups, however, decided to table a joint resolution which is totally partisan and ideological, and in which the russian government is blamed for all the ills. paragraph 7 provides a sad example of this, calling on the russian authorities to "end the shameful propaganda and information war they are waging against their neighbours, the western world and their own people, which is turning russia into a state of repression, hate speech and fear". the european union is ill-placed to accuse others of waging a propaganda and information war. we all saw this in the referendums on the european constitution and the treaty of lisbon, for example.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i consider it unrealistic and dangerous. she accuses vladimir putin without evidence of having ordered the assassination of boris nemtsov. and more generally, she accuses russia of becoming "a state of repression, hate speech and fear". the union would like to start a war with russia, which it would not do otherwise, especially when we know that at the same time jean-claude juncker has put forward the idea of creating a european army against russia.
in writing. ‒ voted against this purely ideological resolution which, in a simplified view of reality, blames russia and its president for all ills, including the 'climate of hatred and tension in europe'.
in writing. ‒ this false text proves the total blindness of this parliament to the situation in russia. so, from the very first line, the facts are rearranged in the atlanticist ideological manner. boris nemtsov is described as the "leading figure of the liberal opposition in russia" even though his party made less than 1% in the last election. we're better off as a figurehead. a few lines further, the anti-semite and racist alexei navalny is introduced as nemtsov's "brother"... with such blindness to such enemies of freedom, one might as well write that the earth is flat. i regret that the european parliament can vote in support of such crude propaganda. more than ignorance, it is a sign of the manipulative will of the initiators of this text to enter into a war logic with russia. the authors of this text and those who vote for it are irresponsible warmongers! he's not sure they're unaware. we must do everything we can to prevent this war. i vote against it.
in writing. this resolution is a caricature of the primary anti-russian hatred that reigns within the european institutions. it is purely ideological to blame mr putin for all the ills of russian society and to accuse him of creating a climate of hatred and tension in europe, even before the investigation into the death of boris nemtsov had begun. the accusative inversion is at its peak... i voted against this resolution, of course.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wants the full light to be shed on the murder of opposition leader boris nemtsov in russia. in the name of respect for human rights and my attachment to democratic values, i share this legitimate concern. on the other hand, i cannot accept a text which takes the form of an indictment against russia without any evidence. this type of resolution contributes to the deterioration of the eu-russia relationship, which i very much regret. i am committed to a direct and frank, but respectful, dialogue between the european union and russia, as with all its partners. we have strong friendships, close trade relations and we are fighting together against terrorism in the world. i therefore did not vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the assassination of the russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia. the european parliament condemned the assassination of boris nemtsov, the main russian opposition figure, and stressed the need for the european union to adopt a common and firm strategy towards russia, particularly in the area of sanctions. the murder of boris nemtsov is unfortunately not an isolated case and environmentalists have every reason to believe that the current investigation is not being conducted in an impartial manner. russian nationalism is now reaching a worrying level, reflected in the extremely aggressive propaganda and the conflict in ukraine. the european states cannot simply turn a blind eye to the serious and persistent violations of human rights and democracy. it is therefore imperative that the european union not only progresses through diplomatic channels, but also makes a clear commitment to support russian civil society, including financially. the european union has much to gain from a clear strategy supporting those who are fighting for pluralism in the country.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which strongly condemns the murder of boris nemtsov and calls for an independent international investigation. this russian regime opponent was gathering information and evidence about russia's involvement in the war in eastern ukraine and was assassinated two days before a protest on this subject. boris nemtsov has fought to defend democracy in russia and has always worked to develop close ties with russia's neighbours and partners. the situation in russia remains of concern in terms of respect for human rights and freedoms; the regime continues to exert pressure and use intimidation on opposition figures. the union should consider implementing more support for russian civil society in order to put an end to the crackdown on freedom of expression, assembly and association.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which strongly condemns the murder of boris nemtsov, a russian oppositionist shot dead near the kremlin, and calls for an independent international investigation into the murder. boris nemtsov, former deputy prime minister of the russian federation and former governor of nizhny novgorod, was a leading figure in the russian liberal and democratic opposition and organized numerous protests against the fallout from the economic crisis and conflict in ukraine. in this resolution, parliament expressed concern at the violent political climate in russia and called for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including nadia savtchenko, a member of the ukrainian parliament and of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe.
in writing. ‒ this report is ideologically oriented with the emphasis on a 'world order'. it clearly outlines the will for a world government under the aegis of nato and the united states, even though not all eu member states are members of nato, and a genuine democratic centralism which goes against the sovereignty of the member states. they are obliged to 'actively and unreservedly support the union's foreign and security policy in a spirit of loyalty'. it aims in particular to establish a single security market for a single world government in which the european union would be merely the lackey of the united states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted against this report, whose principles and orientations i totally disagree with. elmar brok and his supporters are the promoters of an irresponsible and dangerous policy which i am fighting in the european parliament.
in writing. this annual report by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is yet another example of the union's submission to a globalist dogma and to a us supreme command via nato. the report is therefore very clearly 'anti-russian' with the intention that the union and all the member states should speak with one voice to condemn the putin regime. the report also seeks to destroy the very essence of the nation states by selling out their sovereignty even in matters of foreign policy. finally, there is talk of a 'single market for cybersecurity products', a single market that will lead to ever more european federalism and the erasure of frontiers for the benefit of large multinationals and the financial world. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the annual report of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy makes a simple observation: the union is totally aligned with the interests of the united states and nato. the report proposes to 'unify the voices' of the member states against vladimir putin's russia and to pursue the enlargement of the european union to the east. it also wants to strengthen the vassal status of the member states' foreign policy to that of the union 'in a spirit of loyalty'. the totalitarianism of the brussels technocrats knows no bounds when it comes to servile obedience to the interests of the united states. in the present case, it threatens the sovereignty of the member states in the conduct of their foreign policy. i have of course voted against these motions for resolutions.
in writing. ‒ the treaty of lisbon has given the european union a new dimension in foreign policy. the high representative is responsible for defining a common foreign and security policy for all member states. i welcome its work and also note the various efforts being made to optimise this function. however, the ongoing conflicts on the union's eastern and southern borders once again demonstrate the need for european countries to speak with one voice. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ although i largely agree with mr brok's report, i preferred to abstain on the final vote. the report does indeed outline an ambitious foreign policy for the union, adapted to the current and future challenges - terrorism, irregular immigration and energy security in particular. i also welcome the condemnation of the russian military intervention in ukraine and the reaffirmation of a common strategy towards russia contained in this report. however, i do not find in mr brok's text the commitment to freeze accessions to the union made by mr juncker last july. a pause in the process of enlargement of the union is necessary. the wave of accessions in 2004 and the accession of croatia in 2013 have considerably complicated the functioning of the union. the preaccession assistance instrument (pai) set up by the commission is a considerable source of money which would be preferable to be used to consolidate the achievements of the europe of 28. the current focus seems to be on completing the institutional adjustment to the previous accessions and on the internal problems facing the union.
in writing. ‒ a report which shows the european union's willingness to become the champion of a 'world order' under the auspices of nato and the united states. it is therefore not by chance that the text is fiercely and blindly anti-russian, but above all perfectly totalitarian in its vision of democracy since the member states are called upon to praise the union's foreign policy with one voice and without any possible discussion. for the european oligarchs, the union's foreign policy must be aimed at enlargement alone, at the expense of the european leviathan, without regard for the realities and interests of the member states or even those of third countries. i therefore refused to participate in this great mass of world government that the european union is celebrating as a vassal of the united states.
in writing. ‒ this report presents an evaluation of the european common foreign and security policy. i am convinced that in the context of the deterioration of the union's security environment at its eastern and southern borders, the european union's influence in the world must be the first priority of an effective common foreign and security policy. as such, it is necessary for the union to commit itself to supporting its eastern neighbours and containing russia, to strengthening security and stabilisation in the south and to increasing its resources to serve these objectives. while the past few months have sometimes shown a lack of coordination of the union's external policies, i believe that this report presents a precise and sharp analysis of the situation and of the ways in which improvement and reforms can be made. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this annual report reviews the european union's foreign policy and the actions of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. the european union is set to play an increasingly important role on the international stage in the coming years and as the representative of the european peoples, it is important that the european parliament should have a say on the broad lines of its foreign policy. for example, i supported an amendment calling for more transparency in the negotiations with the united states on the transatlantic free trade agreement. i did not, however, wish to support certain paragraphs concerning the sanctions against russia. i am concerned to see international law applied in our relations with third countries, but i do not think that the choice of some very strong terms in this report concerning this country is likely to alleviate the existing tensions.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today discussed in plenary the policy pursued by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the brok report contains statements with which we can only agree, particularly on the question of russia and ukraine. however, we regret that on the question of enlargement, no account is taken of the new political orientation put forward by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, who committed himself last july to a freeze on new accessions. the european union needs to pause its enlargement process in order to consolidate what has been achieved at 28. that is why, in line with our commitments made during the european elections campaign, the french delegation of the alde group chose to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ this report is ideologically oriented, with a focus on enhanced global integration and governance. it clearly outlines the desire for a world government under the aegis of nato and the united states, even though not all eu member states are members of nato, and for a genuine centralism which goes against the sovereignty of the member states. they are obliged to 'actively and unreservedly support the union's foreign and security policy in a spirit of loyalty'. it aims in particular to establish a single market for cybersecurity, dominated by a single global authority, in which the european union would be a lackey of the united states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - this report is as irresponsible as its author. the report goes beyond the direct attack on the sovereignty of states in matters of foreign policy and stresses 'the obligation assumed by the member states when they ratified the treaty on european union to actively and unreservedly support the union's foreign and security policy in a spirit of loyalty'. mr brok wants a manichean europe where the 'good' is the united states and its vassal the european union, and the 'evil' is russia. such a view leads only to chaos. i note that my colleagues from the ump voted for this report. which tells you a lot about their adventurous diplomacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual report on foreign affairs and security policy, which shows that the european union is moving further and further away from the ideal of peace that inspired it in its origins. this report promotes a new world order under the aegis of nato and the united states. this atlanticist policy is expressed in particular by an increasingly caricatured anti-russian policy, the sad results of which can be seen in ukraine. in order to promote this atlanticist policy, the report also calls on the european states to speak with one voice, that is to say to give up their sovereignty in foreign policy matters in favour of the european institutions. this transfer of sovereignty justifies in itself the rejection of this report.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's atlanticist tropism, which makes nato the only possible and desirable framework for the defence of the member states of the european union, would have been sufficient in itself to justify my negative vote. or the conviction, which runs through the text, that the european union's diplomatic and security interests transcend those of each of its members. i shall, however, dwell on article 29. the report states that 'the european legal order', which the rapporteur intends to preserve and strengthen, 'is based on respect for human rights, the rights of minorities and fundamental freedoms, the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of states, and the peaceful settlement of conflicts'. in that case, the first thing to do is to dissolve the european union! what about the sovereignty of the member states, subject to a litany of regulations that dictate their budgets and policies? what about the fundamental rights of the greeks under the auspices of the troika? what about serbia's territorial integrity, which was stripped of kosovo with the complicity of brussels europe? what about the involvement of european states in the yugoslav, iraqi, afghan, libyan and perhaps syrian conflicts, not to mention the role of the european union in the ukrainian crisis?
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today discussed in plenary the policy pursued by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the brok report contains statements with which i can only agree, particularly on the question of russia and ukraine. however, i regret that on the question of enlargement no account is taken of the new political orientation put forward by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, who committed himself last july to a freeze on new membership. the union needs to pause its enlargement process in order to consolidate what has been achieved at 28. that is why, in line with our commitments made during the european elections campaign, the french delegation from the adle group chose to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ this report is the fruit of the ideology that unfortunately drives the european institutions, too often following the foreign policy of the united states and nato, even though several member states are not part of the atlantic alliance. member states are obliged to 'actively and unreservedly support the union's foreign and security policy in a spirit of loyalty'. they would thus lose their sovereignty in foreign policy matters in favour of what was decided in brussels, in the sole interest of the european union, with the help or support - too often - of the united states. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague elmar brok on the annual report of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to the european parliament. this report takes stock of european foreign policy, including the management of the ukrainian crisis and european sanctions against russia. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the foreign policy outlined in the brok report is firstly inconsistent and refuses to accept the union's errors in this area. the text stresses that international relations on the european continent have deteriorated, particularly between the eu's neighbourhood policy partners and russia. in addition, there is a clearly expressed desire to strengthen the transatlantic alliance within nato, while promoting cooperation in the field of security and defence between the member states. however, relations between russia and the union have deteriorated largely because of the union's lack of independence from the united states. the report also expresses a certain distrust of russia under the guise of a strategy of security and energy independence. finally, the report presented to parliament defends the weakening of the sovereignty of states by seeking to accelerate supranational and global political integration. the defence of the single market, particularly in the area of cybersecurity, is clearly seen as the pivot of a confiscation of the freedoms of nations and peoples. in view of all these dangers, i voted against this report.
in writing. - vote against this resolution. this report is, in short, very ideological and nothing but anti-russian litany. it is also an attack on the sovereignty of the member states in matters of foreign and defence policy, and we are opposed to this.
in writing. ‒ even when the report on the common foreign and security policy was voted in the parliamentary committee, it was not brilliant, but now it is reaching new heights. i am opposed to the principle that the union should 'speak with one voice' on these issues, to the detriment of the sovereign positions of the member states. especially if the given framework is this one. the report once again lashes out at russia for "supporting political parties" financially. the neighbourhood policy is therefore just another tool against russia. in this context, the report calls for all political, financial and defence resources to be associated with the nato war organisation. to top it all off, it unconditionally supports the transatlantic single market and is in line with the entire international policy of the united states, the union's major 'essential strategic partner'. this is a good example of all that we have to denounce in one text. i welcome the zeal of the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, of which i am a member, and rapporteur on this report. i vote against it.
in writing. the annual report of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy testifies to the unconditional submission of the union's foreign policy to the united states and nato. he proposed that the 'voices' of the member states should be united in condemning putin. it requires a submission reflex, since it emphasises 'the obligation assumed by the member states upon ratification of the treaty on european union to actively and unreservedly support the union's foreign and security policy in a spirit of loyalty'. it sacrifices the nation state, which is an indispensable support for an army, in favour of market logic and the 'single market for cybersecurity products', leading to ever more federalism, to the delight of multinationals. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it presents the first fair and nuanced assessment of the european union's foreign policy this year, of the efforts made and those to be continued to assert the weight of our continent in the international arena, while preserving the independence of france.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. this balanced report highlights the new challenges facing european foreign policy, particularly in relation to its southern neighbourhood. the special attention to the sahel - a point which i have personally amended - is included in the final text and constitutes the most immediate security challenge for europe with libya.
in writing. ‒ the terrible attacks in france against charlie hebdo have shown once again that the security and lives of european citizens can be threatened from outside but also from within. the union must now combine and coordinate its internal and external security. this point was well underlined in the annual report on foreign affairs and security policy adopted by the european parliament. i voted in favour of this text and i reiterate my support for the main ideas put forward to strengthen the coherence and effectiveness of the union's foreign policy. it is particularly important that the union coordinates its foreign policy more closely with that of the member states in order to be more coherent, credible and effective on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which assesses the annual report of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy. we are in favour of an ambitious and effective foreign policy with a common vision, which will enable the european union to exert its influence on the international scene. the instruments of this policy must be commensurate with the objectives which the union has set itself: for example, humanitarian aid could be allocated more efficiently and the network of eu delegations would benefit from being modernised and better adapted to the realities on the ground, especially in conflict zones. trade policy should always support our principles and values and be used as a lever to defend them. we call for the establishment of a genuine common defence policy, which would be coordinated with other areas such as energy policy or migration policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a more proactive, credible and strategic european foreign policy, based on a common vision of the union's interests and values and a common assessment of the threats to the security of our continent. the report also rightly calls on the member states to urgently strengthen their capacity to contribute to territorial defence, to commit more resources and to take the mutualisation and sharing approach seriously by intensifying their cooperation. some 130 million euros per year would be saved if these closer cooperation arrangements were implemented. the challenges are many: dealing with instability in eastern and southern europe, combating the jihadist threat, protecting europe's values and interests, improving the union's energy security, combating organised crime and trafficking, playing a leading role in conflict resolution and strengthening respect for the rule of law and human rights worldwide.
in writing. ‒ this report is very ideological with the emphasis on a "new world order". it shows the will to create a world government under the aegis of nato and the united states. in this logic, the report is very ideologically and unilaterally "anti-russian", with a practice of genuine soviet-style democratic centralism with the outright annihilation of national diplomatic independence and sovereignty. i therefore oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out an action plan for the universal establishment of human rights in the world, which clearly aims to enshrine a right of interference by the european institutions in the internal affairs of the member states. it allows them to sanction member states if national laws do not correspond to the ideological vision of the european union. moreover, the rights of minorities are emphasized and are to the detriment of the common good and of genuine respect for the inherent dignity of the human person. sexual and religious minorities are favoured under community law. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ like the tarabella report, the panzeri report contravenes article 168 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states that policies on so-called reproductive health are a matter for the member states. the european union therefore has no need to impose its views on countries which have sovereignly chosen other paths, a fortiori in an area which is the sole responsibility of the member states. in addition to promoting gender ideology, the panzeri report also confirms that the european union is spending its time lecturing the entire planet on human rights while at the same time flouting the basic rules of democracy by not respecting the sovereignty of nations or the will of the people. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of civil society organisations, including the european parliament, the council of europe, the european parliament and the european economic and social committee. i note, however, that the tarabella and panzeri reports, drafted by socialist meps who are seeking to promote gender ideology a little more, have been supported by their colleagues in the ump.
in writing. this 84-page report on human rights in the world sets out the guidelines for european thinking on the subject. under the guise of defending human rights, brussels wants to impose sanctions on countries which do not respect its ideological vision on the matter, thus erasing national specificities, local cultures specific to nations or territories. the european vision thus fully enshrines the principle of interference to justify its decisions, whether they concern immigration policies (it requires that no state can deport a refugee to a territory) or the rights of minorities. in view of the arguments mentioned above and the amendments tabled by my colleagues in committee, i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends that member states better integrate human rights concerns into the conduct of bilateral or multilateral diplomatic relations. if the intentions seem to be laudable, they do not make foreign policy. we all remember that it was in the name of the so-called respect for human rights that western countries, including france, overthrew colonel gaddafi and allowed chaos, war and islamic fundamentalism to take root in libya. the same scenario was almost followed in syria, which would have resulted in the massacre or forced exile of the christian, kurdish and alawite minorities. moreover, the right-of-hommism barely masks a form of arrogant moral neo-colonialism that appears totally anachronistic in 2015 (confers the "humanitarian outings" in the nineties of bernard kouchner). no, the european union does not have to lecture the member states, which must remain free to conduct their foreign policy in accordance with their own best interests. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the 2013 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. it is essential that human rights and democracy be respected throughout the world. the european union must set an example in this respect. we have seen that fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of expression, are too often violated. the promotion of human rights on the international stage must be a priority for the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which makes human rights the true trojan horse of the european institutions to enshrine the principle of interference. in this report, the european union once again wants to be the schoolmaster, to give out the good and bad points, even to take sanctions if national legislation does not follow the european ideological vision. in addition, human rights sentimentalism is used to justify the gradual destruction of our national sovereignty, as in recital n which prevents member states from taking the necessary measures against illegal immigrants. finally, the report seeks to enshrine the rights of minority actors such as the lgbt lobby to the detriment of the common good and genuine respect for the dignity of the human person.
in writing. ‒ this report presents an annual review of the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2013 and of the union's action, including in favour of democratization processes and free elections, support for human rights defenders worldwide, and actions against the death penalty and inhuman and degrading treatment. the report stresses the central role of human rights in the union's external policies, which must be consistent with the union's internal policies. finally, the report supports the maintenance of the post of the eu special representative for human rights with a view to making it a permanent post, with adequate means to fulfil its mission fully. finally, issues of sexual and reproductive rights and same-sex marriage are discussed in the margins of the report. these are purely national matters and the european union does not have to take legislative initiatives on these matters, which is why i voted against the related paragraphs.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to assess the state of human rights and democracy in countries outside the union. we have therefore called for the systematic inclusion of 'binding, enforceable and non-negotiable clauses' on human rights in international agreements concluded by the european union with third countries, while ensuring that these agreements promote the economic and social development of the countries concerned. the report calls on the european union to strengthen cooperation with civil society through programmes under the european democracy fund. as regards certain paragraphs dealing with same-sex marriage, i did not wish to support them, because i believe, as i said in the last parliament, that matters relating to marriage and the family should remain the exclusive competence of the member states. the european union must focus only on areas where its action is relevant, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. the report recalls the importance of mainstreaming human rights and democracy in all the union's activities and calls for human rights to be at the heart of all the union's relations with third countries, including its strategic partners. this is an important message and one which has been very widely supported by parliament. the report does, however, contain matters which fall within the competence of the member states, such as the question of the recognition of same-sex marriage or civil unions. i do not approve of this european interference in the internal affairs of each member state, which unfortunately is all too frequent in this type of matter. i therefore chose to abstain on this paragraph, which in my view is not a matter for members of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out an action plan for the universal establishment of human rights in the world, which clearly aims to enshrine a right of interference by the european institutions in the internal affairs of the member states. it allows them to sanction member states if national laws do not correspond to the ideological vision of the european union. moreover, the rights of minorities are emphasized and are to the detriment of the common good and of genuine respect for the inherent dignity of the human person. sexual and religious minorities are favoured under community law. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ with this report, it is the forced march to the world "lgbti"... the report "notes the legalization of same-sex marriage or same-sex civil unions in a growing number of countries - 17 at present - worldwide; encourages the eu institutions and the member states to contribute more to the debate on the recognition of same-sex marriage or civil partnership as a political, social and civil and human rights issue.' i note that my colleagues from the ump all voted in unison for this report, so there was no need to march in the front row against the taubira act during the demonstrations. the european union is revealing its true face, that of imposing on everyone its ultra-liberal vision of society, which knows no borders, no people, no difference between the sexes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2013. this report is nothing but a neo-colonial manifesto: human rights are being used to enshrine the principle of interference, just as in the past the 'right of the people' was used to enshrine the policy of gunpowder. the report thus assigns the right and wrong points according to the prevailing ideology, even if it means imposing sanctions on sovereign states whose laws are not to the liking of the ruling class. of course, the report also apologises for immigration, under the guise of a right to asylum which has long been known to be used to justify settler immigration. the report also aims to dictate family policies in all member states, for example by promoting marriage or civil unions between persons of the same sex. however, the principle of subsidiarity, if understood and applied by the europeanists, would require that questions relating to family policies and marital status be left to the sole discretion of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted last thursday in favour of the panzeri report, which presents a state of play of human rights and democracy in the world. it is an important tool for reporting on progress made and critical situations that still require concrete action. however, i would like to point out that i abstained on paragraph 162, which is intended to encourage the other member states of the european union 'to contribute more to the recognition of same-sex marriage or civil partnership as a political, social and civil and human rights issue'. i felt that this paragraph did not respect the principle of subsidiarity, which means that in family policy each state remains sovereign and therefore decides what it considers to be in the common interest of its country.
in writing. i have voted in favour of my colleague mr panzeri's report on human rights, democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter, at a time when these rights are being terribly violated. what can we do effectively to stop these cases that we hear about every day? among the proposals put forward, i would particularly like to mention the adoption of sanctions in the event of serious violations of human rights by a partner country with which the european union has concluded an agreement. or the reinforcement of the management and accountability of the union's funds for the defence of human rights, in order to avoid any misuse and to act as a deterrent. among the issues raised, such as the definition of climate refugees, minority rights or a moratorium on the use of the death penalty, i spoke in particular for the recognition of the inalienable rights of women and girls to dispose of their bodies and their right to access health care and abortion. we must prevent every five minutes a girl from being a victim of female genital mutilation worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i am satisfied with the overall economy of the text. however, i regret that once again the left groups have tried to include disqualifying remarks about eu member states which do not share their current thinking on gay marriage. i repeat that same-sex marriage and surrogacy are national issues and therefore do not need to be regulated by europe. i would bet that the european parliament would gain credibility if it were not systematically the subject of media attention for taking positions that are totally out of step with the immediate concerns of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report again underlines the ideological line supported by the institutions of the european union and certain parliamentary groups. under the pretext of defending human rights, this report proposes that the union and other international institutions intervene in the affairs of a state concerning, for example, asylum and immigration law, which are, however, matters within the sovereign powers of a state. human rights are being used here for purely political and indefensible purposes: to support communitarianism through the legal recognition of sexual orientations. i voted against this text which makes europe the standard for these illegitimate demands.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague pier antonio panzeri's report on the state of human rights and democracy in the world in 2013. the report stresses the importance of mainstreaming human rights and democracy in all eu activities and pays particular attention to issues such as freedom of religion and expression and violence against women and girls. it thus provides a global overview, highlighting the scale of the work to be done and the support that the union and the member states can provide. the report was adopted by a large majority of 390 votes in favour, 151 against and 97 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter, as did other members of the national front. it is of course a positive thing that the european union is concerned about human rights in the world. however, this concern is too often expressed in ideological and partisan ways. this resolution provides several examples. it seems that immigration from outside the european union to the member states is considered a fundamental right in paragraph 183 of the text. human rights are used to excuse and encourage a lax immigration policy. not only does it call for 'developing adequate channels of legal migration', it also wants to deprive member states of the possibility of applying their own asylum policy by imposing 'effective common standards for reception procedures throughout the union'. this attack on the sovereignty of the member states has nothing to do with the defence of human rights, it only widened the democratic deficit which characterizes the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which uses human rights to justify the interference of the european institutions. the report suggests assessing the situation and actions of countries, even proposing sanctions if the national laws in place in the countries do not correspond to brussels' expectations.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on human rights in the world contains good elements. we avoided the usual caricatured passages about cuba and venezuela and i welcome the denunciation of mass surveillance although the united states is not mentioned. on the abolition of the death penalty or lgbti rights, fortunately the amendments during the vote in the parliamentary committee of the right and the fn were not passed. but, to the detriment of the sovereign positions of the member states, it pursues the objective of 'speaking with one voice' in matters of foreign policy, going so far as to ask for a seat for the union at the united nations without foreseeing that it cannot be the one already occupied by my country with the other victors of the second world war. he also called for a strengthening of the instruments for financing organisations abroad, a tool for interference in third countries which sometimes finances ngos and sometimes opposition organisations. instead of calling for a solution to the ukrainian conflict, he sees russia as a "strategic problem". i vote against it.
in writing. the report shows a questionable interference in the foreign policy of the member states. it is intended to require member states to integrate the notion of human rights in their diplomatic relations in all circumstances. while this intention may be laudable and full of good feelings, it is an intolerable interference in the affairs of the member states, which could have dangerous, even neo-imperialist consequences. the systematic inclusion of non-negotiable binding clauses in international agreements is called for. at the level of the member states, it wants to constrain the states in their fight against immigration by prohibiting them from deporting a refugee... i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. i voted in particular in favour of paragraph 136 of the resolution, which calls on the member states to guarantee women and girls the inalienable right to bodily integrity and to independent decision-making, in particular as regards the right to legal abortion.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report, of course, because it lists violations of fundamental rights around the world and sets out or recalls the eu's position on these violations and the means to remedy them. however, while i strongly condemn violence against women and homosexuals, i voted that the issues of access to abortion and gay marriage, which are matters for the internal debate of each nation state, should not be a subject on which the european union takes a position.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i fully support the recommendations in this text, which calls on the european union to speak with one voice in the un institutions. the thematic and non-ad hominem approach chosen by the rapporteur has highlighted a number of challenges - the definition of the term climate refugee or the fight against the death penalty - and is very effective in guiding our external action. i therefore wholeheartedly support the report.
in writing. ‒ freedom, democracy and respect for human rights are fundamental values of our union. every year, the european parliament publishes a report on human rights and democracy in the world. the text adopted today looks at the situation of these rights in 2013 and sets out the union's priorities. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. i wanted to emphasize that i am particularly attached to french values: women must retain control over their own health and sexual and reproductive rights. i'm not going to compromise on that one. however, even if we have to present a position, i wanted to remind you that the union must respect the principle of subsidiarity: these matters must remain the domain of the states, just as family and civil union between persons of the same sex.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report, which takes stock of the state of respect for human rights and democracy in the world in 2013. the text recalls that the european union places the human person and human dignity at the heart of its action. the text calls for the systematic inclusion of binding clauses on human rights in the union's international agreements, including trade agreements with third countries. parliament also reiterated its unequivocal support for the abolition of the death penalty and expressed concern at the continuing high number of executions in china, iran, indonesia, saudi arabia and vietnam. the resolution also strongly condemns attacks on christian communities in africa, asia and the middle east, and more generally on religious minorities. i would prefer to abstain on the paragraph which 'encourages the institutions of the union and the member states to contribute more to the debate on the recognition of same-sex marriage', because i believe that this is a matter for the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report is more than a state of the world's human rights, it is an action plan for their universal establishment. once again, human rights are the true trojan horse of the european institutions in enshrining the principle of interference: it is a matter of distributing the good and bad points, even taking sanctions if national laws do not correspond to the european vision. this report exploits emotions to justify the dismantling of the national sovereignty of the member states, particularly in the area of immigration. this report seeks to devote the rights of active minorities to the detriment of the common good and genuine respect for the inherent dignity of the human person. it thus highlights 'in particular the guidelines to promote and protect all human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (lgbti) persons'. one might start by questioning the new adjective given to the "lgbt" influence group and thus the legal and political recognition of the status of "intersex". it is legitimate to ask why a particular minority, regardless of sexual orientation or religion, should be favoured under community law. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for increased cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states against terrorism, and in particular islamist terrorism. it is rather balanced, taking account in particular of the necessary balance between freedom and security, and encourages the member states of the union to be more firm and more cooperative with the arab league states in the common fight against terrorism. the resolution rightly recalls that some arab league states, which sometimes have very close relations with some eu member states, have shown guilty indulgence towards islamist terrorist groups. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, while at the same time wishing to see a deepening of cooperation in the fight against terrorism, particularly with the countries most exposed, namely egypt, syria and iraq.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this surprisingly balanced resolution which calls for cooperation between the member states of the european union and the states of the arab league in the fight against terrorism.
the terrorist threat in europe is becoming more and more present, especially with radical islamists. it is therefore necessary for the european union to maintain relations with the league of arab states in order to combat terrorism and to take appropriate measures. this resolution is balanced and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolutions on relations between the union and the league of arab states envisage enhanced cooperation in the fight against terrorism. it appears to be balanced, since it aims to tackle, in association with the states of the regions concerned, the rise of islamist terrorism. although it is not in principle the union's responsibility to deal with the foreign policy of the member states, this is a common sense measure which i support. i therefore voted in favour of the motions for resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which, unusually, proposes a balanced view of the measures to be taken to combat islamic terrorism. the report provides for close and multilateral cooperation between the member states and the league of arab states. it also reaffirms the need to strike a balance between the measures needed to ensure our security and the care needed to avoid encroaching on the freedom of our fellow citizens. the report also stresses the need to rethink the eu's responsibility for the spread of terrorism, particularly as it continues to maintain privileged relations with countries suspected of financing terrorism. because our security is non-negotiable, the patriotic members of the house have supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution welcomes the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the european union and the league of arab states to enhance dialogue and cooperation in the fight against terrorism. in view of the threat posed by terrorist groups, there is a need to strengthen the exchange of information on crisis situations and the sharing of assessments and good practices with a view to defining concrete actions to respond to the current threats related to the radicalisation, recruitment and displacement of terrorists and foreign fighters, as well as the return of these fighters to their place of origin. i believe that this is the right approach and that these policies cannot be effective without the close cooperation of the countries of origin and directly affected by terrorism, so i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in the face of the global threat of terrorism, we must provide a global response. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution to strengthen our cooperation with the league of arab states in the fight against terrorism. it is crucial that we share our assessments and best practices, to prevent the recruitment and movement of terrorists and 'foreign fighters', as well as to address the underlying drivers of radicalisation. i am very much involved in this matter, as i am the rapporteur for the european parliament on a text for the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. everything must be done as soon as possible to deal with this growing global threat, and i welcome the rapid establishment of this strategic dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the european union is facing a terrorist threat which is already affecting many countries. it is clear that the member states of the union and the states of the arab league must strengthen their cooperation in order to combat this scourge together. in particular, this will involve strengthening our exchange of information on the recruitment and movement of terrorists and foreign fighters, as well as the practical fight against radicalisation, arms trafficking and terrorist financing. this memorandum of understanding between the european external action service (eeas) and the league of arab states (las) is therefore absolutely necessary. the fight against terrorism requires coming together and acting together. the resolution also stresses that counter-terrorism measures should not be misused to suppress legitimate protest voices or to violate human rights. it also recalls the inalienable right of religious minorities to be protected.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for increased cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states against terrorism and, in particular, islamist terrorism. it is rather balanced, taking account in particular of the necessary balance between freedom and security, and encourages the member states of the union to be more firm and more cooperative with the arab league states in the common fight against terrorism. the resolution rightly recalls that some arab league states, which sometimes have very close relations with some eu member states, have shown guilty indulgence towards islamist terrorist groups. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, while at the same time wishing to see a deepening of cooperation in the fight against terrorism, particularly with the countries most exposed, namely egypt, syria and iraq.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this memorandum of understanding because, following the bloody attacks in paris and copenhagen, it is essential that the european union acts against terrorism in cooperation with all the major international organisations and communities. the agreement aims in particular to support and strengthen relations between the european union and the arab league in the fight against terrorism, transnational organised crime and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and will allow for better crisis management.
in writing. ‒ this text calls for the necessary cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states in order to establish an adequate policy against terrorism, and in particular against islamist terrorism. this motion for a resolution takes account of the necessary balance between freedom and security and calls on the member states of the union to be more firm and more cooperative with the arab league states in the common fight against terrorism. it also recalled that some arab league member states, which sometimes have very close relations with some eu member states, had shown guilty complacency towards islamist terrorist groups. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, as i would like to see even greater cooperation in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on relations between the european union and the league of arab states and cooperation against terrorism. the draft resolution stresses the importance of cooperation in humanitarian assistance, in the context of concrete actions to respond to terrorist threats and a more effective approach to preventing the movement of terrorists and foreign fighters. but it is also important to maintain the balance between freedom and security in response to terrorist threats. this proposal was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the national front meps decided to vote for the relatively balanced resolution on relations between the european union and the league of arab states and on cooperation in the fight against terrorism. the resolution calls for greater cooperation between the eu member states and the countries of origin, transit and destination through which foreign jihadists and the resources to support them have been transported. however, we must remain vigilant in relation to countries suspected of financing terrorism. the resolution rightly recalls that "the rights of religious minorities are inseparable from the respect of other fundamental rights and freedoms, including the rights to liberty, security, equal opportunities for men and women and freedom of expression, and calls on the lea, the eeas and the member states of both organisations to protect religious minorities in the arab world".
in writing. ‒ vote in favour of this resolution. the resolution calls for balanced cooperation between the member states of the european union and the members of the league of arab states in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the text reaffirms the importance of cooperation between the european union and the arab league in the fight against terrorism. cooperation is well under way, since it informs us in passing that a secret memorandum of understanding was signed between the european external action service (eeas) and the general secretariat of the league of arab states (las) on 15 january. the text therefore calls for the terms of the agreement to be finally made public. i am generally opposed to the action of the eeas or any other attempt by the european union to do without sovereign states in matters of foreign policy. i abstain in order to approve the request for publicity without approving the action or the service that is conducting it.
in writing. this resolution on relations between the union and the league of arab states envisages enhancing cooperation in the fight against terrorism. it appears to be balanced, since it aims to tackle, in association with the states of the regions concerned, the rise of terrorism. although the european union is not in principle responsible for the foreign policy of the member states, this is a common sense measure that can be voted on.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution on cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states in the fight against terrorism. the resolution rightly recalls that terrorism poses a direct threat to all countries and all people, regardless of ethnic origin, religion or belief. it also stresses that a policy of de-radicalisation and the fight against terrorism cannot be effective without the close cooperation of the countries of origin. the text also calls for better protection of religious minorities in the arab world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that terrorism is a global threat that must be combated by coordinated efforts of national governments and international organisations, and that, as such, the intensified fight against all forms of extremism, including jihadist extremism, requires increased cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to welcome the union's commitment to close cooperation with the arab league countries. only through mutual understanding, cooperation and understanding will we be able to combat terrorism at its source in a lasting way. this is the political component complementary to the security component.
in writing. ‒ the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy signed a memorandum of understanding with the secretary-general of the league of arab states (las) in january last year, establishing cooperation between the two organisations in the fight against terrorism. this resolution, which i voted for, is a reminder that any alliance with third countries must be made with respect for human rights. we welcome the progress made in the fight against terrorism, including the establishment of a dedicated centre within the united nations. and while we recognize the need for coordinated action with the lea, we must not ignore the fact that some of its member states are regularly violating fundamental rights. we call for the content of this agreement, which has been kept secret until now, to be published so that democratic and judicial control can be ensured.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which reaffirms cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states, particularly in the fight against terrorism. this resolution follows the signing on 19 january 2015 of a memorandum of understanding between the european external action service (eeas) and the general secretariat of the league of arab states (las). the protocol will allow the two parties to expand their dialogue and cooperation in order to foster the eu-eaa strategic dialogue, including exchanges on political and security issues. increased cooperation will address the threat posed by terrorist groups and foreign fighters, and develop the exchange of good practices to improve action. the work will also be carried out in the context of the full implementation of the un global counter-terrorism strategy. we are now in a difficult period in which the european union must rapidly reflect on its strategy on counter-terrorism measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which establishes a protocol of cooperation between the european union and the league of arab states to combat terrorism. jihadist extremism is one of the main causes of the current terrorist threat in the european union and the arab states. a policy of de-radicalisation and the fight against terrorism cannot be effective without close cooperation with the countries of origin. the text calls for the development of a mechanism to curb arms trafficking and a more effective approach to preventing the radicalisation, recruitment and movement of terrorists and foreign fighters, as well as measures targeting fighters returning to their place of origin.
in writing. ‒ the arab league is strangely silent and inactive on the islamist terrorism that threatens the world. we must support any initiative which, for once, puts additional pressure on this assembly, which must really fight this scourge. i voted for this text even though i think it is vain to hope for anything from it. i would remind you that the arab league has excluded the representation of syria from its meetings, a country which is at the forefront of the fight against terrorism and which is courageously facing the islamic fundamentalism which is bleeding it.
in writing. ‒ cooperation in a multilateral framework is not in itself a deterrent. it should even be the preferred approach of the european union, which should not substitute itself for the member states in bilateral agreements. i wish i had the same eagerness at the time of the arab revolutions, four years ago, to support the democratic transition. the message to the people of these countries would have been very different. we know that this has not been the case, and the situation in these countries has actually deteriorated considerably, with some member states having either active or passive responsibility. so today we are talking about cooperation in the fight against terrorism. it should also be conditional on a minimum of respect for human rights. but the cia's actions, in which both eu and lea member states participated, would be enough to show that one can only be skeptical, let alone about the human rights situation in many lea states. i am already concerned about the security deviations in the union, and therefore i am very doubtful about cooperation with such regimes in the field of terrorism. i have chosen to abstain on this well-intentioned resolution and to follow the position of my group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because i believe that measures to manage cod fishing activities must be taken at european level if this species is to be safeguarded. i also believe that such measures should take due account of scientific knowledge and promote local management and the principle of regionalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which consists of an assessment of stocks, the establishment of a total allowable catch (tac) and quotas under a multiannual management plan, quotas which will have to apply to recreational fisheries. this proposal corresponds to the wishes expressed by the french fishermen and i therefore supported it.
in writing. following a request from the united kingdom, the european commission has banned pelagic trawl fisheries for cod in the english channel, the celtic sea and the north sea until the end of april. however, this prohibition appears to be unfair and ineffective, with pelagic trawl fishing accounting for only 25% of catches. pelagic fishing is mainly carried out by the french, recreational fishing (75%) by the british, who are the origin of the ban request. the motion for a resolution presented here is in line with the requests of french fishermen, since it aims to assess stocks and, above all, to establish quotas (including for recreational fishing) as part of a multiannual management plan. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the european commission to ban pelagic trawl fisheries for cod in the english channel, the celtic sea and the north sea until the end of april, following a request from the united kingdom. this prohibition, which is totally disproportionate, shows how far the technocrats in brussels are disconnected from the daily lives of the fishing industry. this prohibition is ineffective because it affects only 25% of catches, while the remaining 75% is made up of recreational and other types of small-scale fishing. it should also be noted that pelagic net fishing is mainly practised by french fishermen, while recreational fishing is mainly practised by english fishermen. the prohibition is therefore discriminatory, since it will have the effect of penalising the french shipowners in the first place. the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. i voted for this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on european measures for the management of the cod, which i tabled on behalf of the committee on fisheries. the resolution proposes a roadmap for the establishment of a european multiannual management plan for the bar. this plan, which will have to be based on scientific advice, will be prepared in consultation with all the actors concerned. it will have to contain concrete long-term management measures for both commercial and recreational fisheries. the resolution identifies various possible management measures: reduction of tacs, increase of minimum landing size, introduction of biological rest periods, quantitative restrictions for recreational fisheries. these are only options at this stage which will have to be decided by the legislator, in the light of scientific advice and after extensive consultation with all the actors concerned. i now ask the european commission to launch a public consultation on the bar with a view to proposing a proper management plan for this species.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to propose measures to promote sustainable fishing, while also reiterating the unjust ban on fishing for pelagic trawlfish in the english channel, the celtic sea and the north sea, imposed by the commission last april. the proposal is to set up an assessment of the stock of bluefin tuna with a view to determining a total allowable catch (tac) and quotas under a multiannual management plan for recreational fisheries. this is a measure that has long been requested by french fishermen and is also being done in a spirit of preserving our ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ in january, the european commission took emergency measures to close the european waters to pelagic trawlers until 30 april 2015. these measures are intended to ensure the preservation of the species but are not intended to be permanent. the european parliament therefore calls, through this resolution, on the european commission and the member states to assess the state of the stock of barley and its delimitation. i believe that the european commission should quickly propose a multiannual management plan for the resource, taking into account scientific advice and in consultation with the relevant stakeholders, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in the interest of preserving stocks of endangered marine species in european waters, i voted in favour of this resolution on european measures for the management of the stock. a multiannual management plan based on scientific advice should be established for this species, which is common in both commercial and recreational fisheries. the european parliament, through this resolution, urges the european commission to put in place long-term measures, such as increasing the minimum landing size or introducing biological rest periods, to improve the management of this species, while managing as well as possible the impact they may have on the actors concerned, in particular french fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution for two reasons: firstly, there is no denying that the situation of bar stocks is a matter of concern and requires an appropriate response; the commission has also proposed that the fishing industry be given a new role in the fisheries sector, and that the fishermen who make their living from this fishery be given a new role, something which is not possible with the moratorium used by the european commission in the absence of more precise legislation. it is therefore essential that the european parliament should take up the matter. i will be vigilant in the drafting of the legislative text and will make sure in particular that it does not harm any of the sectors involved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes a roadmap for the implementation of a sustainable management plan for cod fishing, identifying several possible measures. the committee believes that a public consultation should be launched quickly in order to propose a genuine management plan for this species.
in writing. ‒ for years, scientists have warned us that the bar is over-exploited, but the commission has never been able to convince member states of the need for european-wide controls to preserve this species. at present, the restrictions are limited to technical measures: minimum landing size and mesh size limit. so much so that the commission had to enact an 'emergency measure' banning fishing for certain trawlers until the end of april. the purpose of this resolution is to ask the commission to assess the state of stocks and to propose a multiannual management plan for bluefin tuna with catch quotas, which should help save the species. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution in the interests of protecting the environment and preserving the species.
in writing. ‒ the front national meps voted in favour of the resolution on sustainable fishing for hake, as it is a balanced text aimed at avoiding the extension of the moratorium on fishing for hake beyond 30 april 2015, while proposing sustainable fishing measures beyond that date. the resolution rightly points out that restrictions should not be imposed on commercial fishing alone, which accounts for only 25% of catches.
in writing. ‒ the cod is a late-maturing, slow-growing fish, popular with both commercial and recreational fishermen. i was in lorient in january 2015 for a forum on the sea in the presence of alain cadec, chairman of the european parliament's committee on fisheries, when the commission took its unilateral decision to close the cod fishery. i was calling for the need for multiannual management of quotas, which in my view covered two key principles: firstly, the necessary definition of a total allowable catch (tac) and quotas for bluefin tuna, and secondly, planning for the management of activities over a long period of time. this motion for a resolution goes in that direction and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. the purpose of this resolution is to review the ban on pelagic trawl fisheries for cod in the channel, celtic sea and north sea, which had been requested by the united kingdom, until the end of april. first, that prohibition is ineffective since it concerns only 25% of the cod caught in those seas and is unfairly discriminatory since it concerns only pelagic trawl fishing, which accounts for only a minor part of the total catches concerned. it is the french fishermen who are the main users of this practice, while recreational fishing is more commonly practised by the british. the improvements contained in the resolution, which respond to the demands of french fishermen, are in the right direction, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the bar, whose stocks are in a worrying state. the text calls on the commission and the member states to assess the state of the stock of blue whiting and its demarcation, migration and exact breeding grounds, if necessary by using the european maritime and fisheries fund, which provides considerable funding for the collection of scientific data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution proposing a roadmap for a multiannual european management plan for cod, as it will be prepared in consultation with all the actors concerned and will contain concrete and innovative long-term measures for both commercial and recreational fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution proposing a roadmap for the establishment of a european multiannual management plan for the bar. the commission could launch a public consultation in order to propose a proper management plan for this species. this plan will have to be drawn up in consultation with all the actors concerned and will contain concrete long-term management measures for both commercial and recreational fisheries. options that may be considered, but which will have to be decided by the legislator, include setting tacs (total allowable catches), increasing the minimum landing size, introducing biological rest periods or quantitative restrictions for recreational fisheries. this resolution is a real signal to the european commission and we hope that it will be heard.
in writing. ‒ following a request from the united kingdom, the european commission has banned pelagic trawl fisheries for cod in the english channel, the celtic sea and the north sea until the end of april. this prohibition appears to be unfair and ineffective: pelagic trawl fishing accounts for only 25% of catches, while the remaining 75%, not affected by the ban, is due to recreational fishing and other types of fishing (line, bottom trawl, net, etc.). it therefore appears that the scarcity of resources cannot be seriously combated by a discriminatory measure which affects only 25% of the catches. it should be noted that pelagic net fishing is mainly carried out by the french and that recreational fishing is mainly carried out by the british, who are the origin of the request to ban pelagic net fishing. the proposal by the chairman of the committee on fisheries, alain cadec, is to assess stocks, establish a total allowable catch (tac) and establish quotas under a multiannual management plan, quotas which will have to apply to recreational fishing. this proposal corresponds to the request made by the french fishermen. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ like other fish species, stocks of cod, fished mainly in the north atlantic between ireland and portugal, are declining, with the species's future recovery threatened if measures to regulate this fishery are not taken quickly. the fishery is characterised by a large proportion of recreational and even sport fishing, with catches representing 25% of the total number of catches. in order to ensure better management of the stocks of bluefin tuna for the conservation of this species, the resolution calls on the commission to take concrete measures such as stock assessment, a multiannual plan taking into account breeding periods, or the study of the establishment of fishing quotas. although i regret the rejection of my group's amendments calling for the extension of the emergency measures and the adoption of a regionalised approach to the management of this fishery, i voted in favour of this text which calls for better control of this fishery to safeguard the bluefin tuna and thus the biodiversity of our oceans. this is the right thing to do, even if it is a position taken by the european parliament without any legislative consequence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution initiated by my colleague alain cadec, which proposes a roadmap for the establishment of a european multiannual management plan for the bar. this proposal follows the temporary ban on fishing for bluefin tuna announced as a matter of urgency in january 2015 to stop the decline in stocks. unlike other species, the bar is not subject to a specific management plan. the resolution proposes options to replenish resources and protect the interests of small-scale fisheries. parliament stressed that future recommendations should be based on scientific advice.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this very ideological resolution which, under the guise of defending human rights, encourages immigration, wants to prevent member states from regaining control of their borders and promotes gender theory and its entourage of ultra-minority communitarian demands.
in writing. this resolution reflects the eu's ambiguity on human rights, particularly in the case of syria. while it is commendable to condemn human rights violations (even if we cannot really judge other countries' internal affairs), it is worrying that the union is referring back to back to the terrorist group 'islamic state' and the syrian government of bashar al-assad. we must resume dialogue and relations with syria to prevent it from falling into the hands of terrorists. the proposal also clearly condemns russia in the ukrainian conflict, once again aligning with the us view of the situation. the union is even considering the creation of a european army, an old federalist dream to further consolidate nations and their sovereignty. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the union's lack of realism and impartiality is at its peak and the position it expresses at the un seems dangerous. the european union calls on the government of the drc to take all necessary measures to ensure that the human rights situation in drc is not jeopardised. it is in the interest of the eu member states to resume dialogue with bashar al-assad, as his government is the only credible bulwark against the islamic state. if his regime falls, syria will become a back-base for this group, which will use it to multiply terrorist acts in europe. the union condemns russia, which is responsible for all the evils in ukraine, and adopts the us position in all circumstances, going so far as to want to create a european army, an old utopian sea serpent, since the interests of the countries are so divergent in this case. i voted against this text because diplomacy is a matter for sovereign states and not for the union.
in writing. ‒ the united nations human rights council was established in 2006. the body is made up of 47 states that are responsible for enforcing and promoting human rights worldwide. the european union must be a world leader in this area. that is why it is important to send a parliamentary delegation representing the european parliament to each session. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which more or less echoes the proposals of the panzeri report on human rights. it is therefore a very ideological bias used to justify the intervention of the european union, the self-proclaimed guardian of universal morality. so paragraph 10 which, in essence, attacks the independence of the member states in their votes in the un human rights council. or the repeated encouragement to promote gender theory, as in paragraph 34 of the report. finally, what about the double standard, which is still in force when it comes to the union's denunciation of human rights violations? the alleged 'annexation' of ukraine by russia is denounced, but other suspicious behaviour in this area by countries such as qatar or saudi arabia is omitted. in the name of realism and common sense, i had to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the 28th session of the united nations human rights council, the european parliament recalls the inalienability of human rights, whether civil, political, social or economic, and the priorities of the union in this field, particularly with regard to its partners where human rights violations are most evident. this resolution also seeks to address a subject which i believe is important, namely the links between climate change and human rights. environmental changes threaten the livelihoods of particularly vulnerable populations in low-income countries and in coastal and small island low-lying states that lack the economic resources to adapt to radical environmental changes. in this respect, climate change is an obstacle to the realisation of internationally recognised fundamental rights. because i believe that the states parties to the conference of the parties on climate change will have to take a stand on this issue, participate in the legal definition of the term 'climate refugee' at the international level and adopt ambitious mitigation and adaptation measures, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. this resolution on the 28th session of the united nations human rights council deals with many issues, including two which have long interested me and which prompted me to vote in favour of this resolution. the resolution stresses that the terrorist attacks in paris and copenhagen are attacks on fundamental rights, the most important of which is freedom of expression. it strongly condemns the attacks and the use of religion by some extremists. the resolution also focuses on the situation of women in the world. in this connection, it is rightly critical of the still too little progress made in the area of equality between men and women and strongly condemns sexual violence against women. in order to combat inequalities and violence, parliament called on the european union to participate actively in the 59th session of the commission on the status of women, while welcoming the recognition by the international criminal court of crimes related to sexual orientation, including rape, sexual assault and humiliation, and its recommendation that these be regarded as war crimes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 28th session of the un human rights council. i share the european union's priorities set out in the text in the areas of civil and political rights, economic and social rights and the rights of the child.
in writing. ‒ the national front mps voted against the resolution on the european union's 2015 priorities for the un human rights council. as every year, this is a highly ideological text. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not crossed. this is yet another attack on the sovereignty of states in matters of immigration, under the guise of respect for human rights. how can there be "arbitrary arrests and detentions" when it comes to illegal immigrants? how can we expel these people if we can't hold them? other solutions to this problem are discussed, but they are never named in a concrete way. the spirit of the established political groups in this parliament has never solved any problems, but only contributes to making them worse.
in writing. - i vote against it. like the panzeri report on the 2013 annual report on human rights and democracy voted earlier, this very ideological resolution uses human rights to justify brussels' interference in the affairs of third countries.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the reports calling for the union to 'speak with one voice' on foreign policy, because this goes against the sovereign positions of the member states. in this case, it is a resolution to give a mandate to the european union delegation taking part in the annual work of the united nations human rights council. the european parliament has once again given lessons to russia, which has been redefined alongside qatar and azerbaijan as a "totalitarian state" without a word to kuwait, saudi arabia and a few other rich allies of the united states. but the resolution mostly avoids taking a position on some of the debates scheduled for the session's agenda: housing rights, access to public services and debt cancellation. the european union's austerity policies, which have also been scrutinized by the united nations, have undermined inalienable rights.
in writing. the european union lacks realism in its defence of human rights. the position it is taking at the un is dangerous. the european union condemns the violation of human rights in syria, but refers back to back to the islamic state and bashar al-assad. it is in the interest of the eu member states to resume dialogue with bashar al-assad, as his government is a bulwark against the islamic state. if his regime falls, syria will become a back-base for this group, which will use it to multiply terrorist acts in europe. the union condemns russia, which is responsible for all the evils, and adopts the us position in all circumstances, going so far as to want to create a european army, a utopian sea serpent, because the interests of the countries are so divergent. since diplomacy is a matter for sovereign states and not for the union, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution on the european union's 2015 priorities for the un human rights council. the text, which condemns the january 2015 attacks in france, reaffirms that freedom of expression, the cornerstone of any free and democratic society, is a fundamental right of every person. it also condemns the use of religion by extremists and jihadists all over the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution at the 28th session of the united nations human rights council, which took place in geneva from 2 to 27 march. the human rights council is an intergovernmental body of the united nations system. it is composed of 47 states that have the responsibility to strengthen the promotion and protection of human rights around the world. the council thus addresses situations of human rights violations and issues recommendations in this area. the resolution stresses the importance of defending human rights at international level and sets priorities for the fight against the death penalty, the defence of children's rights and the monitoring of the human rights situation. the text also stresses the importance for the european union of sending parliamentary delegations to the three sessions of the human rights council to demonstrate the support of the union and parliamentarians for the defence of human rights, a central objective of the union's external action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which lists the european parliament's priorities for the 28th session of the un human rights council. the text expresses support for the appointment of prince zeid ra'ad zeid al hussein as un high commissioner for human rights, reaffirms that freedom of expression is the cornerstone of any free society and strongly condemns the attacks in paris and copenhagen by terrorists using religion to commit barbaric acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need for a firm and united european response, given the increase in human rights violations in this country. we reiterate with this resolution our demand that the venezuelan regime respect democratic freedoms and we demand the immediate release of all citizens who have been imprisoned or unjustly detained for disagreeing with the official doctrine of the chavista government.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution which goes beyond the principle of non-interference, to which i remain committed, without any valid reason.
in writing. this motion for a resolution calls on the venezuelan authorities to immediately release antonio ledezma, leopoldo lópez, daniel ceballos and all peaceful protesters, students and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression and their fundamental rights in venezuela. the latest figures, from 2006, rank venezuela 115th out of 168 countries by reporters without borders (rsf) in terms of press freedom. in the same year, an ngo had identified 106 violations of freedom of expression. rsf also highlighted the adoption of new laws in 2004 and 2005 against various types of "offenses", including against the president, and against calls for violence, calling them "very restrictive in terms of freedom of expression" and saying they create "a climate of self-censorship in the media". the political situation in venezuela is therefore tense. however, as i am against interference in the internal affairs of other countries, i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ venezuela is facing an internal political crisis that is challenging the authority of president nicolas maduro. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome, and to the promotion of the rule of law, democracy and human rights. a staunch defender of its sovereignty, venezuela is still struggling to find a balance in its development model. and it is not the little moral lessons taught by the european union that will help him. that is why i abstained on these motions for resolutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it falls into the same trap it claims to be fighting, namely ideology. in this resolution, the ideology of interference is at work. it must be understood that venezuela is still trying to find its way between refusing submission to the united states and an equally dangerous submission to socialist ideology. as a patriot, i can only applaud the efforts made over the last ten years by a country which has defended its sovereignty to the hilt, particularly by fighting the monroe doctrine, which led to a veritable vassalisation of the south american countries to the interests of the united states. however, the rejection of ultra-liberal ideology must not lead to the embrace of socialist ideology which, as we see with the current situation, condemns the peoples to distress: economic distress which pushes millions of venezuelans to resort to rationing; but also political distress with a police state, sclerosized by corruption and drug trafficking and where the opposition is gagged as we saw with the totally illegal imprisonment of ledezma. like many of my colleagues, president maduro continues to brandish the red cloth of a so-called "fascist" threat to avoid lifting the veil on the dangerous effects of his illusions.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows the arbitrary arrest on 19 february of antonio ledezma, the main venezuelan opposition figure and elected mayor of the metropolitan district of caracas, and the repression of the protests that followed. parliament was concerned about the recent deterioration of the situation in venezuela and the use of violence against political opposition and civil society actors and protesters, and called on venezuela to release immediately antonio ledezma and also leopoldo lópez, daniel ceballos and all peaceful protesters, students and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression and their fundamental rights. i have voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the rights of the opposition and freedom of expression are inalienable principles and the foundations of any democratic society.
in writing. in recent months, the situation in venezuela has deteriorated sharply, putting at risk the exercise of certain fundamental freedoms such as freedom of expression. the increasing number of arrests of political opponents, including antonio ledezma, mayor of caracas, illustrates this deteriorating climate. in this regard, the resolution adopted by the european parliament expresses its deep concern at the deterioration of the situation in venezuela and calls for the dispatch of a delegation of meps to establish a dialogue between the various political parties. the european union also rightly condemns the use of force against demonstrators and demands the release of political opponents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the situation in venezuela. it called on the venezuelan government to put an end to the repression of dissidents and the violations of freedom of expression and assembly, and called for the immediate release of all demonstrators arbitrarily arrested since the beginning of the protests. he also expressed concern that the forthcoming demonstrations could lead to further violence. this proposal was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the national front mps decided to abstain on the final vote on the resolution on the situation in venezuela. there are positive elements in this text, such as paragraph 12 which calls on the commission and the council to study and adopt any necessary measures to safeguard european interests and the principle of legal certainty for european companies in venezuela. as was already the case under mr chavez, there is a real problem here. there is a certain left that is trying to make the maduro regime look like a victim of the united states. even if this were the case, it does not justify the current plight of the venezuelan people, nor the apparently arbitrary arrests of opposition leaders. however, this joint resolution of the established political groups goes as usual against the principle of non-interference which the front national wants to see respected.
in writing. ‒ as a new coup against the government of the bolivarian revolution has just been foiled, this resolution condemns the victims. and the coup plotters are described as "peaceful protesters", although they were well equipped with molotov cocktails and weapons of war. as always in this parliament, a narrowly atlanticist view prevails. it was even expected that the resolution would propose to declare venezuela a "security threat" to europe, as the united states has just done. i am voting against this ridiculous text which is a rude command from the united states.
in writing. the situation in venezuela shows that the line chosen, that is, the rejection of all us imperialism and dogmatic socialism, can lead to autocratic excesses. if the economic situation is worrying, it is largely due to the government's lack of action and the low oil price, and we do not see why the european parliament should interfere in this. nor does he have to issue orders on the fate of political opponents in a sovereign country whose elections are recognised as democratic by ngos. however, the political situation is worrying, as shown by the illegal imprisonment of ledezma, corruption and drug trafficking. but the eu is concerned about venezuela, which has been the subject of six debates in the last five years. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution on the situation in venezuela. the text calls in particular on the venezuelan authorities to release all persons arbitrarily detained for exercising their freedom of expression, and more generally calls on the venezuelan government to comply with its own constitution and its international obligations regarding the independence of the judiciary, the right to freedom of expression, peaceful association and assembly, and political pluralism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because, like many citizens, i am alarmed by the situation of human rights, democracy and the right to opposition in venezuela, and i consider it our moral and political duty to ask, with the greatest respect, but firmly, the venezuelan authorities to respect these rights enshrined in our country, in europe, in the fundamental charter of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am extremely concerned about the deteriorating situation in venezuela. the imprisonment on 19 february of antonio ledezma, the mayor of caracas and a member of the opposition, embodies the authoritarian drift of the current government. the recent arrests, the ill-treatment of prisoners in prison and the omnipotence now enjoyed by the armed forces since they were authorized by decree to use arms against protesters are unacceptable. venezuela does not respect the basic rules of democracy, such as freedom of expression and association. we call on the venezuelan authorities to release all peaceful protesters and opposition leaders detained for exercising their freedom of expression, and encourage the peaceful resolution paths initiated by unasur. finally, it is clear that the european union should take account of the deterioration in respect for the fundamental rights of the venezuelan people in its bilateral relations, particularly in its trade policy towards venezuela.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text to express my deep concern about the violent repression of protesters in venezuela. this resolution calls for the release of protesters, students and opposition leaders who have been arrested and arbitrarily detained, thus endangering freedom of expression and assembly. it is essential that the government cease all political repression and guarantee respect for fundamental freedoms as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which condemns the use of violence against protesters in venezuela and the arbitrary arrest of opposition figures in february 2015. the text recalls that one year after the protests of february and june 2014 in venezuela, more than 1,700 protesters are awaiting trial, more than 69 are still behind bars and at least 40 people were killed during the protests, that their killers have not been held accountable for their actions, and that the police, members of the national guard and armed, violent and uncontrollable pro-government groups have used excessive and systematic use of force and violence against protesters. parliament expressed concern that, in an election year, the political opposition was the victim of arrests and attacks which could call into question the legitimacy of the elections.
mr president, i very much regret that the minutes of the last part-session do not record the incredible act which you have committed, in violation of annex xi to our rules of procedure, by handing over our assistants and parliamentary colleagues to your political opponents without even discussing it with them, without even asking them for any explanation, and by referring the matter to the french minister of justice, mrs taubira, your political friend, even though the olaf investigation which you referred to had not yet begun.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, this spring council was indeed very rich in debates. i would also like to start by mentioning the energy union, which is particularly important for us. i would like to point out that the member states have supported the five pillars of this union: energy security, the integration of the internal market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation and, of course, research and development. we can rejoice because we have to accelerate the movement! and translate this energy union into concrete action as quickly as possible. the member states must therefore invest in this area and must not be frivolous about the strategic issues. let me stress some priorities. first, energy security, which requires first and foremost the completion of a more integrated internal energy market. member states must apply existing rules before adding new ones. without regional cooperation aimed at the completion of this internal energy market and without the firm application of the legislation of the third package on the internal energy market, the energy union will be impossible. we need better connections and efficient use of existing networks. this is a vital condition for this internal market. secondly, the european union must manage its supplies better by a real diversification of its energy sources. it must reduce its energy dependence and promote energy efficiency, particularly in buildings. the european union will thus be more competitive. thirdly, innovative technologies must be the spearhead of the european union. to become the world leader in these renewable energy technologies, we must seize the opportunities in these sectors, not only in wind and solar, but also in biomass, electricity storage, co2 storage and capture, hydrogen and, finally, nuclear power of the future. support for research and innovation is essential for europe's competitiveness. the task is therefore enormous: to strengthen this competitiveness, to develop jobs and to enable our young people to find these jobs on the european continent. in this context, i welcome the council's intention to stress, in the context of the european semester, the need to carry out structural reforms in europe and to improve public accounts in order to restore growth, which unfortunately remains fragile and heterogeneous. the european union is suffering from a lack of investment because investors do not have enough confidence. the commission must therefore ensure that the stability pact is applied in a firm manner by the member states. structural reforms will not be carried out without a clear incentive to comply with european rules. these reforms are too timid and insufficient in some european countries. we must not underestimate the terrible consequences of this lack of fundamental reforms for the peoples of europe. greece is a particularly painful example. finally, the european fund for strategic investments, chaired by president juncker, is sending a strong signal and it is timely. we fully support it because it restores confidence in areas where there was no longer any risk, where there was no longer any hope for the long term. i particularly stress the need to preserve research, both fundamental and applied, because it is the breeding ground for the innovation of tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". of course, each member state is sovereign in the choice of its supply, i.e. its energy mix and its supply possibilities. such decisions are certainly not in the direction of harmonizing what we have to decide in the context of this energy union. i hope we can convince all the member states that we really must cooperate.
mr president, i congratulate the european council and the commission on the new working method: from now on, each summit will be devoted to a main topic. this time it was the energy union. mr president-in-office of the council, i would ask you to make plans now to hold a european council meeting in the autumn on the problem of corporate taxation in the union. the difference in tax treatment of companies has become the major cause of fragmentation of the internal market and of inequality between small and large companies. recent press revelations have triggered public outrage to the extent that - as physicists would say - the conditions of temperature and pressure are now in place to hope for decisive progress in this field. the european commission has adopted a tight timetable and parliament has set up a special committee to support, stimulate and extend its work. but on this subject everything will depend on governments and on the ability of heads of government to get their finance ministers to obey them. in 1992, the disappearance of national currencies was imposed by powerful leaders on finance ministers and central bank governors who did not want it at any cost. it is a very important and courageous decision which the european council will be asked to take, mr president, under your presidency.
in writing. the european council seems to be rejoicing at the disastrous situation created by its own policies. the need for more structural reforms, i.e. more deregulation and more precariousness, is being stressed, as it is every year. with youth unemployment at 23% in the euro area, the eu's only response has been a timid guarantee, whose shortcomings have recently been pointed out by the court of auditors. nothing is proposed for the training and skills deficit in the southern euro area countries and nothing can be done in the context of fiscal consolidation undermining growth. but without a minimum of growth, any reduction in unemployment is impossible. the european council welcomes the juncker plan, which is merely a smoke screen leading to major business effects, without any real increase in the overall amount of productive investment. as long as the european union has not made the right diagnosis and has not locked itself into a free trade dogma, of which even the most eminent theoreticians, at the end of their lives, warned of the disastrous consequences for the most fragile audiences, the situation cannot improve.
in writing. the european council endorsed the european commission's new initiatives in the field of energy. the council and parliament must now work and take up their responsibilities to make the energy union an ambitious and appropriate response to the challenges of energy security, business competitiveness, the transition to a low-carbon economy and energy poverty. the council conclusions are a good way of measuring the challenge of this project. different energy policies, including those which differ in terms of network and supply infrastructure, should be better coordinated, while respecting the member states' competence in choosing their energy mix. in addition, a common policy framework should be provided which is adapted to the diversity of energy sources in europe, from wind power in the north sea and the mountains of spain to solar energy in latin america, not to mention french nuclear energy. finally, public and private financing should be provided to match our ambitions, with the commission estimating the cost of the energy union at 2 000 billion by 2025. so here is the gist of the challenges ahead and the responsibility that lies ahead.
in writing. the european council is once again bragging about the pitiful results of its own policies. the constant appeals are here: more and more structural reforms, which will of course lead to more deregulation and more precariousness. it should be recalled that youth unemployment in the euro area is 23%, and that the eu offers a slight guarantee in the face of this disaster, the shortcomings of which the court of auditors has just listed. in addition, there is no proposal on the training and skills deficit in the southern euro area countries. the first difficulty is the context of fiscal consolidation, which is hampering any recovery in growth. but without a minimum of growth, any reduction in unemployment is clearly impossible. the european council, on the other hand, is reassured by the juncker plan, which is only an illusion leading to major business effects, without any real increase in the overall amount of productive investment. the european union has therefore sacrificed a generation to save the euro. the eu is incapable of making the right diagnosis, obsessed with ultra-liberal dogma, of which even the most eminent theoreticians, at the end of their lives, warned of the disastrous consequences for the most fragile audiences.
in writing. i would like to commend the quality of the annual report on taxation by the socialist member of parliament, eva kaili. the text firstly underlines the extent of tax fraud and evasion: each year, almost €1 000 billion of tax revenue is avoided in the member states of the european union, even though public finances have been severely affected by the economic and financial crisis. the resolution contains several strong messages from the european parliament to the council: the discussions on the financial transaction tax have gone on too long, the 11 member states participating in enhanced cooperation must take their responsibilities to finally put this instrument of fiscal justice in place. the commission's proposal should also make the common consolidated corporate tax base, a first step towards tax harmonization, compulsory.
madam president, i have just returned from a joint mission of the committee on budgets and the subcommittee on security and defence to kiev. in ukraine, the crisis is on all fronts. the war has not stopped, the human cost is high: deaths every day and hundreds of thousands of migrants fleeing the war zone. the economy shrinks, inflation explodes, the currency collapses. the new ukrainian government and its parliamentary majority have the will to carry out deep reforms but they need effective support and financial means. we certainly welcome the european teams representing us on the ground. we have met them, but they are not alone: many international institutions are there. that is to say, commissioner, we need coordination between international donors and lenders, but also coordination within the european union services, first in brussels, and between brussels and kiev. we also need to simplify our procedures, reduce our decision-making and payment delays so that we can respond in real time to clear emergencies. when there's a fire in the house, you don't argue about the price of water. in this dramatic context, the european union must accept the leadership of coordination and ensure the right balance between the rigorousness of aid and the acceptability of conditionality measures by the ukrainian people, a courageous but suffering people, a people who are waiting for results to regain hope and confidence in the future. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ukraine is in every respect the test of truth for the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we vote on this macrofinancial assistance, we must first of all think of the ukrainian people who have suffered and are still suffering from the war, the political crisis and the economic crisis. it is obvious that the european union must help ukraine, but it is equally obvious that this aid must be accompanied by reforms, particularly the fight against corruption in all areas - including the awarding of university degrees - which is a distortion of democracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have three comments to make. first, you have repeatedly stressed that the country is at war. according to the imf's international statutes, it is forbidden to intervene in ukraine because - you said it - the country is at war. i just thought that our house would stick to the rule of law, but it does not. secondly, our help must be conditional. we say that sanctions against the russians should be maintained to ensure that they implement the minsk agreements. i think the reverse is true: we must only support and help kiev if it respects the minsk agreements, which it does not do today. thirdly, we have interrupted a normal electoral process and then we are left with a bankrupt country: 10 000 dead, 100 000 refugees, a purchasing power divided by four and it is not over! your help will not change this situation!
mr president, although mr verhofstadt is a political opponent, i strongly support his proposal. i was a member of the special committee, then called the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities, for more than ten years. there was, more than twenty years ago, in this parliament, objective case law, due to one of our colleagues, mr donnez, which said very clearly that when there was a fumus persecutionis, a smell of political persecution, that the member was being prosecuted by political opponents and for political reasons, his immunity had to be maintained. i think i have always observed this case law, even when it has been a political opponent. i have noted with regret a trend in the committee towards maintaining the immunity of, say, mainstream parliamentarians and systematically lifting it, even for matters of political expression, for 'politically incorrect' parliamentarians. i have no further comment to make. i would have liked mr verhofstadt to have applied the same ... (the president withdrew the floor)
in writing. the terrorist attack in the tunisian capital on 18 march last year once again exposed the barbarity of islamists who attack the cultural heritage of ancient civilizations, which is part of the material heritage of all humanity. what could be more vile than attacking the remains of lost civilizations and those who come today to admire or, simply, to discover what these civilizations have left us? in the face of these barbarians, it is more urgent than ever to review our diplomacy and to stop supporting regimes which, like those in saudi arabia or qatar, are strongly suspected of supporting islamic terrorism.
in writing. the terrorist attacks in tunisia on 18 march were a further attack on the european model of civilization. the attackers chose the bardo museum in tunis, not only because it attracts thousands of western tourists every year, but also because it is a veritable repository of tunisia's pre-islamic heritage. the jihadists, like their leaders at the head of the islamic state, intend to carry out their own cultural revolution to wipe out a history that they consider blasphemous. in the face of this barbarity, it is time for the european union to shed the trappings of its idealism and to put on the necessary realism. it is by participating in the planning of the destabilisation of africa that the european union has made a bed for terrorism: the collapse of libya has resulted in an islamist chaos, as the tunisian head of state, mr béji caïd essebsi, has pointed out. how long, ladies and gentlemen, will you allow your idealism to be the humus of terrorism? it is time to take responsibility, to review our diplomacy with regard to certain countries suspected of financing terrorism. it's time to reconnect with history.
in writing. the terrorist threat has struck again. this appalling attack on the bardo museum in tunis is an attack on the democratic transition in tunisia, but also on europe and its values. more than ever, the european union must intensify its cooperation with its partners if it is to be able to combat effectively the global terrorist threat and extinguish the hotbeds of jihadism. i therefore welcome the declaration by the european council on 20 march last announcing that the european union and its member states will step up cooperation with tunisia in order to counter this common terrorist threat, to strengthen tunisian democracy and to contribute to its socioeconomic development.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, we are faced here with a profound flaw inherent in the present european construction which places the right to competition above the right to social progress. while one state - germany - decides to set up a minimum wage, neighbouring countries and the commission have exerted anti-social pressure to ensure that this minimum wage does not apply to lorry drivers. this is the way in which european employees are condemned to a life of social service. we must not accept such a logic. the commission and our parliament must support any initiative which allows for social harmonization from the top: the implementation of a progressive minimum wage in each country, a revision of the directive on posted workers in the sense of equal treatment of all workers in the european union. we have a responsibility to put social progress before the deadly right to compete.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the presence of many european transport unionists in this chamber, who are listening to us. social dumping is a vicious circle, pitting employees against each other and favouring large firms over small ones. in the transport sector today, there is talk of fierce competition in labour costs because workers are particularly mobile in this sector. dentressangle in the road transport sector, ryanair in the air transport sector: these companies are not playing the game. in the shipping industry, it is the same: a new form of modern slavery is developing every day in this respect, with the exploitation of undeclared employees. commissioner, everyone in this house agrees that we have a real problem with social dumping in transport. yes, let's move! let us create a european labour inspectorate to monitor and punish unscrupulous employers. let's put together a blacklist of these companies. let's set minimum standards for working conditions and wages. this is precisely the opportunity to introduce a minimum wage throughout europe. as for transport, we must - it is true - move faster: strengthen the rules on cabotage in the road transport sector, clarify, in particular, the problem of national flags in the maritime transport sector. the german and french laws have recently changed so that every lorry driver is paid the minimum wage, particularly during his passage through the country. it is not a question of waiting for each state to introduce its own legislation. it is up to europe to take responsibility and provide a common response. if we do not act now against social dumping in this sector, this poison can put an end to our project, the european project. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr. member, my sentence was very clear. i said, "this is an opportunity to introduce the minimum wage throughout europe". regardless of sector: the minimum wage should apply to all sectors. this is the social europe we are waiting for: the same work, the same pay everywhere in europe!
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, social dumping impoverishes workers and undermines the european project. they must be fought with determination. the internal market and competitiveness cannot be used as an excuse to call into question the improvement of working conditions in all countries and i welcome the decision of the german government to introduce a minimum wage for cabotage. it is not a question of defending any particular country, but of defending an idea and a conviction. in december, the european parliament had already shown its determination by refusing to vote on an act which did not include illegal cabotage as a serious offence. it is now time for the european commission to take a serious look at the protection of social rights in transport. finally, i would like to point out that the application of a minimum wage to cabotage operations, which are clearly covered by the directive on posted workers, is fully compatible with european law. road transport undertakings must comply with the conditions of remuneration of the countries in which they carry out cabotage operations. in france there is a minimum wage and the government's initiatives will help to ensure that european legislation is properly respected.
mr president, commissioner, because of the very specific nature of international road transport - which is different depending on whether it is transit or cabotage - the risky link to the posted workers directive or the rome i regulation - which is often done in a haphazard way - has many very harmful consequences. firstly, a great disruption to the working environment of international lorry drivers, who are either shamefully exploited or have their jobs destroyed, as the national chains have lost thousands of driver jobs. secondly, in response to these facts, the action taken by the member states - and this is the subject of today's debate - can have serious consequences for the functioning of the single market itself. thirdly, the uncertainty in which the institutions find themselves about the attitude to adopt, which is, madam commissioner, your case today. i therefore strongly urge the commission to look into this problem and to adopt a specific legal framework for workers in international road transport, which will make it possible to defend their rights and ensure the proper functioning of this sector, which is so important for the union. it should be remembered that 72% of goods within the union are transported by road, making it an essential market tool. the present uncertainties and approximations can therefore no longer be tolerated.
mr president, commissioner, the commission is at a crossroads: we are discussing a highly european subject, road transport. without prejudice to smes, which throughout europe - as we know - create jobs, we need a number of clarifications today. the first is the distinction between transit and cabotage activities. it is extremely important that you be clear on this. the second point is the link between the work we have done on the directive on posted workers and the organisation of the work of road hauliers today. we really need a very clear clarification on this subject, a legal framework, as some of my colleagues have said, because we cannot allow ourselves to be dragged down the slope of social dumping and unfair competition between companies. i understand from the debate i'm hearing here tonight that we're going way beyond that. we are in a debate which is no longer a european debate: we have returned to national debates, in which everyone is defending his own piece of meat. yes, we need the commission to be a social commission, as jean-claude juncker has said and promised us. so you have to take a step forward and be firm about this sector.
madam president, commissioner, the issue we are dealing with this evening is of paramount importance for the future of european road transport and, more generally, for our vision of a social europe. as you know, international road hauliers can currently spend seven days loading and unloading their lorries in a transit country before they arrive in their destination country. it's called cabotage. however, these lorry drivers are not entitled to the same minimum wage or social protection as their colleagues in the country they are crossing. the activity is very similar and is carried out well in the same territory. in my country - france - the most highly-employed country in europe, french road hauliers are therefore in direct competition with other european road hauliers on their national market, which has led to the loss of 21 000 jobs in france in 15 years. we are also going to vote soon on a grant of two million euros for the fired truck drivers of the mory ducros transport company. a european solution is needed to fill the legal vacuum. i think that the rules on cabotage should be redefined and that a specific regime should be created for highly mobile workers. yes to mobility and competition, but no to a mad race to social dumping.
madam president, it is not surprising that parliament is concerned about the roma today. since 2010, the european union has been increasing communications, recommendations and regulations to force member states to achieve roma integration. the aim is to enable roma to find jobs and housing and to provide their children with an education. at the same time, the european union has spent billions of euros on roma. for example, the european social fund has paid out €13.3 billion between 2007 and 2013 to finance the integration of roma. all these efforts have largely failed. in france, for example, the andatu programme in the rhône department is being hailed as a success. it has cost 2,600,000 euros over three years and has only served to obtain residence permits and to receive the income of active solidarity, without succeeding in integrating them into the labour market or into french society. let's be realistic, it would be better to change the policy and put pressure on romania and bulgaria to treat their roma with dignity instead of trying to integrate them elsewhere, even when they don't want to.
in writing. international roma day is an essential event to better combat prejudice and to denounce the discrimination and persecution that roma still suffer too often. the european roma inclusion strategy adopted in 2011 is still not sufficiently implemented in the member states. thus, roma still do not have access to the same healthcare as other european citizens. roma children are less likely to attend school and in some countries even receive training normally intended for disabled children. in addition, roma often live in unacceptable hygiene and sanitation conditions, while discrimination in employment persists. the eu's roma inclusion strategy must be continued and expanded. the european commission therefore has a responsibility to be more vigilant about the effective application of the directive by the member states and to apply sanctions when necessary. the inclusion of the roma is an issue for this minority but also a challenge for europe. a challenge to the scourge of populism. a challenge to the european idea, because the roma are the heart of our europe. this europe is full of diversity and multiculturalism.
in writing. ‒ although i am opposed to the hypocritical system of the 'globalization adjustment fund', i voted in favour of this report to help the 928 employees affected by the closure of 16 television broadcasting companies.
in writing. ‒ this request, which concerns greece and more specifically attica, the region most affected by unemployment in greece (26.3%), proposes the mobilisation of commitment appropriations (eur 5.046 million) to help the broadcasting sector in greece, following the dismissal of 928 people in 16 broadcasting companies. the causes mentioned are the fall in household purchasing power, which has led to a collapse in demand, and the deterioration of credit conditions. the aid consists of subsidies for vocational retraining and training and unemployment benefits. however, these causes are only the consequence of the dramatic contraction in domestic demand and the fiscal austerity in force in greece, under the pretext of fiscal consolidation and reduction of the external deficit. i have decided to vote in favour of this aid, which is essential for the economic recovery of this greek region. although the globalisation adjustment fund is a means of tackling the problems caused by austerity and the opening up of the world to the four winds of globalisation, it seems essential to provide financial assistance to these sectors currently threatened by the crisis.
in writing. this request by greece for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund follows the dismissal of 928 people in 16 enterprises operating in the programming and broadcasting sector. the work of the committee on budgets indicates that 'the redundancies in the broadcasting sector in the attica region are linked to the global financial and economic crisis which, on the one hand, has reduced the disposable income of households, which has led to a very sharp fall in purchasing power, and, on the other hand, has sharply reduced loans to companies and individuals due to the cash-flow difficulties of the greek banks'. they also point out that 'these redundancies are expected to have a very large negative impact in the attica region, which already has the highest number of unemployed in greece'. i therefore voted in favour of the fund's contribution of eur 5 046 000.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will provide some relief for 928 employees affected by the closure of 16 television broadcasting companies. as everyone knows, greece has been in a deep recession since 2008; according to elstat, the greek statistical authority, since 2008, greek gdp has fallen by 25.7 percentage points. we know that this is the result of the financial crisis, a crisis caused by a savage globalisation, the product of unbridled ultra-liberalism. the greek people, who have been suffering from austerity, mass redundancies and degradation for the last six years, deserve very little compensation from the european union, which is also so often complicit in their economic and budgetary persecution.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 928 employees in 16 companies in the broadcasting sector, greece has asked the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support people who have lost their jobs and to help them find work or set up their own business. the grant is worth eur 5 046 000 and covers 60% of the cost of the projects proposed to these employees. since greece's request meets the criteria for mobilising the egf, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. since 2008, greece has been experiencing a financial and budgetary crisis of unprecedented proportions. in this context, non-essential goods and services are particularly affected by the decline in household consumption. this is particularly true in the broadcasting sector. i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help nearly 1 000 workers made redundant in 16 companies in this sector who found themselves in a situation of social fragility. with the co-financing from the egf, these employees will be able to benefit from a package of personalised services such as career guidance, training, retraining and mobility aids.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because, even if the european union's policy of absolute free trade is the cause of the difficulties of european companies, the main thing is to support a company in difficulty, its managers and employees.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund submitted by greece following redundancies in 16 companies specialising in radio and television programming and broadcasting. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 5 046 000.
in writing. ‒ as i had already done in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of the krystos report to mobilise the european mobilization adjustment fund (emf) in respect of 928 redundant employees of the greek company attica broadcasting. the egf will provide eur 5 046 000 to finance an overall project of eur 8 410 000 which will include vocational guidance services, vocational training, specific advice on entrepreneurship and aid for business creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the krystos report to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the 928 employees made redundant by the greek broadcasting company attica broadcasting. greek media companies lost almost half of their main source of revenue between 2009 and 2013 when many advertisers withdrew. in this context, and for the first time in the mass media sector, the €5.04 million mobilised under the egf will finance a large number of vocational guidance and training aids with the aim of reintegrating dismissed employees into the world of work.
in writing. ‒ greece has been hit hard by the austerity policies of previous governments, faithful companions of the infamous troika and its 'structural reforms'. the application concerns the 1,000 employees of the local television stations in the attica region. indeed, public spending on mass media fell by 57% between 2008 and 2012. since coming to power, syriza has already introduced a bill to re-employ the employees of the public television channel ert. these are probably more effective methods than the proposals for self-employment and forced relocation contained in this report. i shall abstain, however, in order not to deprive the greek workers of this fund.
in writing. ‒ this request, which concerns greece and more specifically attica, the region most affected by unemployment in greece (26.3%), proposes the mobilisation of commitment appropriations (eur 5.046 million) to help the broadcasting sector in greece, following the dismissal of 928 people in 16 broadcasting companies. the causes cited are the fall in household purchasing power, which has led to a collapse in demand, and the deterioration of credit conditions. however, these causes are only the consequence of the dramatic contraction in domestic demand and the fiscal austerity in force in greece, under the pretext of fiscal consolidation and reduction of the external deficit. the aid consists of subsidies for vocational retraining and training and unemployment benefits. in order not to penalize the fired more i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim is to mobilise the fund to the tune of eur 5 million to support the redeployment of nearly 1 000 workers made redundant by 16 companies in attica. in greece, gdp has fallen by almost 25% since the start of the crisis, while the unemployment rate has risen by 20 percentage points. the mobilisation of the fund is a further demonstration of the european union's solidarity with the greek citizens who have been hit the hardest by the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the delegation systematically votes for the "european funds for adjustment to globalisation" because they are programmes to support employees of companies sometimes forced to lay off under the pressure of market deregulation, a consequence of the disastrous ultra-liberal policies applied within this european union which is not able to defend either the peoples who make it up or the companies that make it live.
in writing. ‒ although i am opposed to the hypocritical system of the 'globalization adjustment fund', i voted in favour of this report, which provides for compensation for the 705 employees of attica's 46 greek companies operating in the publishing sector.
in writing. ‒ this request for mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund concerns the publishing sector in greece, which is facing the dismissal of 705 people in 46 companies in the attica region. commitment appropriations amounted to eur 3 746 700, mainly comprising assistance for vocational retraining and training, as well as subsidies for self-employment and the creation of businesses. the reasons for the demand and the causes are the same as for the broadcasting sector, namely the decline in household disposable income and the tightening of credit to enterprises linked to the difficult situation of the greek banking system. but this state of affairs has been largely maintained by the austerity policies demanded by brussels. however, since this aid is essential for the survival of this sector in greece, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. the report by lefteris christoforou, presented to the committee on budgets, favours the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, amounting to eur 3 746 700. the publishing industry in greece is facing serious difficulties. forty-six firms made 705 redundancies. the committee on budgets welcomes the fact that 'the greek authorities, in order to provide workers with rapid assistance, decided to launch the implementation of personalised services for the workers concerned on 28 november 2014, without waiting for the decision to grant support from the egf for the proposed coordinated package'. the programme provides for "career guidance, vocational training and education, selfemployment aid and job-search, training and mobility allowances". these are carried out 'in consultation with the representatives of the beneficiaries concerned'. i voted for the intervention of the fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for compensation for 705 employees of 46 greek companies in attica operating in the publishing sector. as unemployment in greece has increased by 20,6% since 2008, the egf must be able to support a country where, as the report states, the global economic and financial crisis has caused a decline in household disposable income, resulting in a sharp fall in purchasing power and the need to prioritise spending. the publishing industry is naturally suffering, since the greeks, hit by the austerity imposed by the troika, consume little or no cultural and literary products. in the fight against the austerity imposed by the imf and the european union, i am therefore in favour of this allocation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 705 employees in 46 companies in the publishing sector, greece has asked the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support people who have lost their jobs and to help them find a job or start their own business. the grant is worth eur 3 746 700 and covers 60% of the cost of the projects proposed to these employees. since greece's application meets the criteria for mobilising the egf, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help greece, which is facing significant redundancies in the publishing sector. the publishing sector, which is not a consumer commodity, has been particularly affected by the greek recession. this translates into a 60% decline in sales in the publishing sector for the period 2009-2013 and a significant number of redundancies. the granting of this fund will help 705 workers to re-enter the labour market, with a view to supporting a revival of growth in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because, even if the european union's policy of absolute free trade is the cause of the difficulties of european companies, the main aim is to support a company in difficulty, its managers and employees.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request by greece for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund concerning redundancies in 46 publishing companies. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 3 746 700.
in writing. ‒ as i had already done in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of the christoforou report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 705 former employees of the greek company attica edition. the adoption of this report demonstrates the european union's ability to respond effectively to the challenges and difficulties posed by globalisation. 705 redundant employees in the publishing sector will receive eur 3 746 700 from the egf to finance projects such as training and guidance. the plan, worth a total of eur 6 244 500, will also enable these former workers in the publishing sector to adapt their skills and know-how to the new market needs so that they can quickly find a job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the christoforou report, which provides for the mobilisation of more than eur 3.7 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the redundant employees of the greek company attica edition. between 2009 and 2013, the greek press lost nearly 60% of its subscribers due to the global economic and financial crisis. thanks to the egf and a plan totalling eur 6 244 500, more than 700 employees will be able to benefit from measures to promote vocational reintegration, such as job-search assistance, vocational guidance and various types of training.
in writing. ‒ greece has been hit hard by the austerity policies of previous governments, faithful companions of the infamous troika and its 'structural reforms'. household consumption fell by more than 32 percentage points, while unemployment rose by 20.6 percentage points. the greek people had to survive, and the annual subscriptions and the purchase of the daily press were severely affected. newspapers suffered a 60% drop in sales, putting some 40 companies in the attica region at risk. the globalisation fund supports some 700 redundant workers in these companies. i denounce these funds for aiding globalisation, which are a real tool to encourage shareholders and states to adhere to the social irresponsibility of capitalism. i abstain on this particular case in order to support the possibilities of re-employing these employees and of reviving a quality press through the regional and national policy of syriza.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the publishing sector in greece, which is facing the dismissal of 705 people in 46 companies in the attica region. commitment appropriations amounted to eur 3 746 700, mainly comprising assistance for vocational retraining and training, as well as subsidies for self-employment and the creation of businesses. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide assistance to workers affected by the crisis in a particular sector or by changes in the economic structures of the member states brought about by globalisation and free trade. although the fund is a tool to deal with the problems caused by the austerity policy and the opening up to the four winds of globalisation, it seems essential to provide financial assistance to these sectors currently threatened by the crisis. i therefore voted in favour of this aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim is to mobilise the fund to the tune of eur 3.7 million to support the redeployment of 705 employees made redundant by 46 companies in attica. in greece, gdp has fallen by almost 25% since the start of the crisis, while the unemployment rate has risen by 20 percentage points. the mobilisation of the fund is a further demonstration of the european union's solidarity with the greek citizens who have been hit the hardest by the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the delegation systematically votes for the "european funds for adjustment to globalisation" because they are programmes to support employees of companies sometimes forced to lay off under the pressure of market deregulation, a consequence of the disastrous ultra-liberal policies applied within this european union which is not able to defend either the peoples who make it up or the companies that make it live.
in writing. ‒ the accusation against mr marinho e pinto clearly has nothing to do with his function as mep but with his former function as president of the portuguese bar. furthermore, the alleged acts do not relate to opinions or votes cast in the exercise of his functions. moreover, mr marinho himself is asking for his immunity to be waived. i therefore voted in favour of this one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr marinho e pinto, who himself wishes to be able to answer the charges against him of defamation of former officials of the portuguese bar when he was president of that body.
in writing. ‒ since the member himself wanted his parliamentary immunity lifted, i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of antonio marinho e pinto. accused of defaming former officials of the portuguese bar, antónio marinho e pinto himself asked for his parliamentary immunity to be waived, as the facts alleged against him in portugal had nothing to do with opinions or votes cast in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. there is also no indication that the prosecution of antónio marinho e pinto is motivated by the intention of hindering the member's political activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity, because the person concerned himself requested it.
in writing. ‒ mr antónio marinho e pinto is asking for his parliamentary immunity to be waived, so i have decided to vote in favour, considering that this decision concerns only him. the member wants to be able to defend himself before the courts of his country, and only a waiver of parliamentary immunity will allow him to do so. i would like to express my concern, however, about the merits of the case. mr marinho e pinto is facing an accusation which seems to me both unfair and unfounded and which i consider to be contrary to the principle of freedom of expression, a right which is increasingly being restricted in the countries of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr antónio marinho e pinto.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because this member of parliament has asked for his immunity to be waived in order to defend himself before the courts of his country. but, in substance, the prosecution seems to be abusive because it retains a very restrictive conception of freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the immunity of mr marinho e pinto, portuguese alde mep. so, in portugal, he called the minister of justice a "stupid bastard". he's being sued for libel. since mr marinho e pinto does not oppose the waiver of his immunity, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ mr marinho e pinto himself has asked for his parliamentary immunity to be waived, so there is no reason to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ the member concerned by this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity is in favour of this request, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the delegation expressed its support for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of antonio marinho e pinto at the request of the member of parliament. he is accused of having defamed former officials of the portuguese bar.
in writing. ‒ although the allegedly defamatory remarks made by mr jakovčić relate to a case dating back to a period prior to his term as an mep, they were made while mr jakovčić was already in office as an mep. parliamentary immunity does not allow members of parliament to be prosecuted for opinions expressed in the exercise of their functions. this waiver of parliamentary immunity is therefore an offence against freedom of expression. so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the waiver of mr ivan jakovčić's parliamentary immunity because i consider it to be an infringement of the freedom of expression of a parliamentarian: he is accused of statements he allegedly made in july 2014 during an interview on the croatian radio and television channel hrt.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity because it is an infringement of freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ because i am resolutely and unconditionally committed to the principle of freedom of expression, i could only vote against this request to lift the parliamentary immunity of ivan jakovčić. the member is being prosecuted for defamation, on the pretext that he freely gave his opinion about a croatian entrepreneur in the press. if a public figure can no longer speak freely - whether his words are derogatory or not - to the globalist fringe of the bosses, then explain to me all the major declarations of intent of the european parliament in its resolutions on human rights and freedom of expression. i had to denounce the hypocrisy of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the waiver of parliamentary immunity, because the main issue here is defending freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity has become, over the years, a means like any other for some to oppose their political opponents and thus avoid the substantive debate. on the basis of suspicion of corruption, ivan jakovčić, who is considered innocent until proven guilty, allegedly said to one of his accusers, also a real estate developer: "i don't judge idiots". apart from the weakness of the insult, i can only oppose mr jakovčić being prosecuted for these remarks, considering that this would go against freedom of expression. i also regret that this concept is often used to serve low political views. i therefore voted against this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. - i voted against because the defamation complaint against this member of parliament does not seem convincing. for the benefit of the doubt.
in writing. - against it. even if mr jakovčić's remarks to mr list may appear to be disrespectful, they are not sufficient to accept a request for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity. all in the name of free speech.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr ivan jakovčić, a croatian alde member of parliament. while governor of the croatian province of istria, he called a german businessman an "idiot" who complained about the administrative complications of opening a polo court. he's being sued for "insult and defamation". as ivan jakovčić has not expressed any objection to the waiver of his immunity, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the request is for the parliamentary immunity of mr jakovčić to be waived for publicly calling a businessman an idiot who was criticizing him for his slow administrative action. freedom of expression must remain the principle, and restrictions the exception. it also seems disproportionate to waive the immunity of a member of parliament for a mere trivial remark.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity because it concerns facts related to freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ the national front delegation voted against the request to lift mr jakovčić's parliamentary immunity because we simply defend freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ although i am against the hypocritical system of the 'globalization adjustment fund', i voted in favour of this aid to lufthansa technik employees. like most european industries, the repair/installation of machinery and equipment sector, however important it may be, is subject to the full force of extra-community competition, against which the european institutions refuse to protect us. in addition to the relocation of global aircraft production, airlines in western europe and the united states are increasingly sending their wide-body aircraft to china for heavy maintenance work and even parent company lufthansa technik has decided to entrust its global mro operations for the airbus a330/a340 to its subsidiary lufthansa technik philippines (ltp). it is urgent to prevent these relocations, which are causing dramatic damage to the member states of the european union, whose factories are closing and whose know-how is disappearing, to the benefit of competitors who often do not respect the standards we have.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns aid to the aviation sector in ireland following the dismissal of 424 employees which could lead to 'serious repercussions on employment and the economy of the region'. without public aid, these redundancies could have dramatic economic and social consequences for the region, given the specific skills of the workers concerned. however, the committee on budgets has requested a special scheme: the aid will not be granted to all workers made redundant, but will be assessed on a case-by-case basis to ensure that the condition of 'serious impact on the regional economy' is met. the aim is to mobilise eur 2 490 758 to help people find new jobs, train others and set up businesses. these redundancies are due to the changes in the structure of the economy brought about by globalisation and the relocation of aircraft production. once again, this is a sign of the hypocritical behaviour of the european union, which deplores the consequences of the causes it cherishes, namely globalised and deregulated competition, and which finds nothing to repair them except the abuse of dismissed workers. i voted in favour of this aid because i believe it is essential to repair the damage caused by globalisation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it helps workers who have been made redundant as a result of structural changes in the context of globalisation. this request follows the dismissal of 424 people in ireland and concerns eur 2 490 728, representing 60% of the total cost. the irish authorities' intervention in favour of employment in this context can be useful in mitigating the damage of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for lufthansa technik. the south-east of ireland, like many other regions in the member states of the european union, is being hit hard by the crisis in the machinery and equipment repair and installation sector, with massive relocations of world aircraft production, particularly to china. the irish-based company has made 424 redundancies. unfortunately, the egf will only be able to benefit 250 redundant employees, but i welcome the decision of the irish authorities to provide personalised services co-financed by the egf to a maximum of 200 young people under 25 who are unemployed, out of school or not in training (neet). as a patriot who opposes the relocations that lead to the dismantling of our industries and our european know-how, i could therefore only support this allocation of the egf to lufthansa technik.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 424 employees at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and two of its suppliers in the aircraft repair sector, ireland has asked the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support those who have lost their jobs and to help them find a job or set up their own business. the grant is worth eur 2 490 758 and covers 60% of the cost of the projects proposed to these employees. since greece's request meets the criteria for mobilising the egf, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. faced with the serious consequences for employment and the local and regional economy of redundancies in the aircraft repair sector in ireland, the european parliament supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the aircraft repair sector in ireland has suffered from the technological evolution towards the production of next generation aircraft and components and a change in the production practices of aircraft components on the world market. i have supported the reintegration of these dismissed workers, whose reintegration appears difficult given the specific nature of their skills.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because, even if the european union's policy of absolute free trade is the cause of the difficulties of european companies, the main aim is to support a company in difficulty, its managers and employees.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund introduced by ireland following redundancies at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 2 490 758.
in writing. ‒ having already voted in the committee on employment and social affairs, i have again voted in favour of the negrescu report, which will allow for 60% of the european globalisation adjustment fund to be used to finance projects to promote the reintegration of 148 former employees of the irish company lufthansa technik. eur 2 490 758 will be used to set up career guidance and planning aids and training and advanced education programmes. these measures are proving to be an effective lever to combat mass unemployment in the union and to deal with the sometimes harmful consequences of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the negrescu report, which calls for the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide almost eur 2.5 million to finance measures to help the reintegration of 148 workers made redundant by the irish company lufthansa technik. through the adoption of the negrescu report, the mobilisation of the egf will provide concrete assistance to former employees of lufthansa technik, thus demonstrating once again the capacity of the european union to respond effectively to major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation, or the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ this fund for aiding globalisation is playing its destructive role. instead of helping workers, it encourages shareholders and states to embrace the social irresponsibility of capitalism. in this case, one of lufthansa's subsidiaries specialising in aircraft equipment is leaving nearly 500 employees stranded in parts of ireland where there are virtually no employment opportunities. meanwhile, the parent company of this german company quietly relocates part of its business to the philippines. nothing is being done to prevent this social dumping by our own european companies. the report does not even condemn the company's practice, nor does it question european industrial policy. we know where the unbridled pursuit of cost reductions leads. germany should think about it. i am voting against this report to denounce the european union's aid to relocation.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns aid to the aviation sector in ireland following the dismissal of 424 employees at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd and two of its suppliers, which could have 'serious repercussions on employment and the economy of the region'. without public aid, these redundancies could have dramatic economic and social consequences for the region given the specific skills of the workers concerned. however, the committee on budgets has requested a special scheme: the aid will not be granted to all workers made redundant, but will be assessed on a case-by-case basis to ensure that the condition of 'serious impact on the regional economy' is met. eur 2 490 758 in commitment appropriations will be mobilised to help reorientation, business creation and training of neets (young people without work or training). these redundancies are due to the changes in the structure of the economy brought about by globalisation and the relocation of aircraft production. this is a sign of the hypocritical behaviour of the european union, which deplores the consequences of the causes it cherishes, namely globalised and deregulated competition, and which finds nothing to repair them except the pain of the workers who have been made redundant. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim is to mobilise the fund to the tune of eur 2.5 million to support the redeployment of 149 employees made redundant by lufthansa technik and two of its suppliers in ireland. these redundancies are the result of changes in the global aircraft maintenance market configuration (renewal of aircraft fleets and competition from low-cost emerging countries).
in writing. ‒ the delegation systematically votes for the "european funds for adjustment to globalisation" because they are programmes to support employees of companies sometimes forced to lay off under the pressure of market deregulation, a consequence of the disastrous ultra-liberal policies applied within this european union which is not able to defend either the peoples who make it up or the companies that make it live.
in writing. - the case of viktor uspaskich seems unclear. he is alleged to have committed several criminal offences but doubts remain about the charges against him. moreover, as viktor uspaskich is a russian-speaking lithuanian, in view of the current situation vis-à-vis russia, this accusation could well constitute a fumus persecutionis. however, when there is a 'smell of political persecution' that the member is being prosecuted by political opponents or for political reasons, parliamentary immunity must be maintained. i therefore voted against the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the waiver of parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich because, according to wikileaks documents, it seems to be a case of fumus persecutionis. the russian origins of the lithuanian member of parliament are not connected with the judicial persecution of which the accused claims to be a victim?
in writing. ‒ i have of course opposed this report, which is full of political persecution and is intended to restrict the personal freedom of the member concerned.
in writing. on monday 23 march, at a public hearing, jean-marie cavada, vice-president of the committee on legal affairs, expressed surprise at the haste with which the matter was being dealt with and at the fact that the conclusions of the legal services were not being awaited. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. bruno gollnisch rightly pointed out that the basic principles of the rights of the defence must be respected. i therefore voted against the waiver of mr uspaskich's parliamentary immunity.
in writing. - fumus persecutionis in this case! the european parliament is calling for the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich to be waived under false pretenses. the only real problem with this member is that he is a russian-speaking lithuanian. the witch hunt started in the uerss. in the war that the european union is waging against russia on behalf of the americans, all blows seem to be permissible. as a supporter of peace in ukraine, of the principle of reality versus ideology and, above all, of the principle of the presumption of innocence, i could only vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the waiver of parliamentary immunity because there are doubts about the charges against this mep, who could be the victim of political persecution.
in writing. ‒ this request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich appears to be politically motivated, considering that mr uspaskich is a russian-speaking lithuanian. in the current geopolitical context, there is no room for doubt. the council is concerned about this matter, since the lifting of immunity was voted by a very small majority. the lifting of parliamentary immunity must remain only a last resort, when the facts and evidence are overwhelming, in order to allow justice to be exercised and expressed. it must not be held hostage to base political considerations or to personal or state interests. the european union is not prepared to accept the new position of the united states, which is not a member of the european union, and the european union is not prepared to accept the new position of the united states. that is why i voted against this waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the request is officially motivated by the fact that this member of parliament has allegedly kept double accounts in the management of his political party. but i am convinced, as are many other members, that the real motive is political persecution, because the man in question belongs to a persecuted russian-speaking minority in his own country, lithuania. the debate in plenary was heated, and the lifting of his immunity was finally voted by a narrow majority. little consolation for this congressman who's going straight to jail.
in writing. - against it. we can seriously question the soundness of the charges against mr uspaskich. we have not had in our possession any formal evidence of any offence. in view of these questions, i am voting against the waiver of mr uspaskich's parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich, lithuanian alde mep. viktor uspaskich is being prosecuted for illegal financing of his political party, the lithuanian labour party. the procedure followed by the lithuanian judiciary still raises some questions, including the fact that the search was carried out while the defendant was at his mother's funeral. it is worth noting that viktor uspaskich is a russian-speaking minority often discriminated against by the current baltic governments. in view of these doubts about the proper functioning of the lithuanian judiciary and the fact that the applicant has denounced a severe attack on his freedom of expression, i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this waiver of parliamentary immunity because it all smells of political persecution which aims to restrict the personal freedom of the mp concerned.
in writing. ‒ the case of mr uspaskich, whose parliamentary immunity is being sought, appears to be a political trial. the charges against him are dubious. it should also be noted that mr uspaskich is a russian-speaking lithuanian. the national front delegation spoke out against the lifting of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ gabriele albertini, former mep, had expressed an opinion during his term of office which was allegedly defamatory. his comments relate to opinions he allegedly expressed during his term as an mep, in order to determine whether the conduct of alfredo robledo, a prosecutor who opened an investigation into facts involving the municipality of milan and relating to the functions of the mayor, constituted a breach of professional ethics and should therefore be the subject of disciplinary proceedings. there is nothing scandalous about what gabriele albertini said. parliamentary immunity does not allow members of parliament to be prosecuted for opinions expressed in the exercise of their functions. in addition, the prosecutor, who was accused of abusing his office to settle a personal matter, was suspended. it seems to me that this is a personal dispute. i therefore voted against the request for non-defence of the privileges and immunities of gabriele albertini, because it is an offence against freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ gabriele albertini, former member of the european parliament, has asked for his parliamentary immunity to be upheld in a criminal case pending before an italian court. i voted against this report, which refuses to do so, although the facts complained of fall within the scope of my freedom of expression, mr albertini having given his opinion on justice in lombardy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it is a matter which touches on the essential principle of freedom of expression. this report recommends not defending immunity.
in writing. ‒ another attack by the european parliament on freedom of expression. mr. albertini only gave his opinion on the state of the judicial system in lombardy and is accused of defamation for casting doubt on the integrity and professional ethics of the prosecutor alfredo robledo, who was conducting an investigation into facts involving the municipality of milan and related to the office of mayor that mr. albertini held in 2005. i do not see why, for having used his right to free expression and opinion, mr albertini should lose his parliamentary immunity and privileges as a member of parliament. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request for non-defence of privileges, because i consider that it is above all a matter of defending freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ gabriele albertini is accused of defaming a prosecutor by accusing him of using brutal and arbitrary methods, contrary to democratic principles. mr. albertini seems to be the subject of a political conspiracy after his statements against his accuser, the prosecutor alfredo robledo. the prosecutor had been investigating a case of "meaningless amendments" for more than seven years, and finally found all the defendants not guilty. there is therefore a personal dispute between the two men and it seems that this request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity is politically motivated in order to damage mr albertini's image. especially since his comments were not outrageous and were part of the most basic freedom of expression. finally, the prosecutor was eventually suspended from office after this new case, thus supporting mr. albertini's claim that the prosecutor abused his office to settle a personal matter. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because it is a matter of concern to this member that he has defamed a prosecutor by accusing him of using brutal and arbitrary methods. but that prosecutor was indeed suspended from office afterwards, a sign that the mp's accusation may have been founded.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of defending the privileges and immunities of gabriele albertini, in the name of defending freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the defence of the parliamentary immunity of a former italian mep: gabriele albertini. in 2010, when he was mayor of milan and under investigation, he said that the prosecutor of the republic of milan had "gestapo methods". he has since reiterated his remarks, targeting the entire italian judiciary and prosecutors. the report proposes that the new case be dismissed as unrelated to his office as an mep and that he was not in office at the time. i vote for it.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this is a text which weakens freedom of expression and which advocates not defending immunity.
in writing. ‒ this macro-financial assistance in the form of a eur 1.8 billion loan is subject to political and financial conditions. it is justified by the foreign policy and the european neighbourhood policy, which are aimed at opening up markets and liberalization, which the front national opposes. these imposed conditions constitute a genuine interference in the politics of ukraine and are contrary to its sovereignty. moreover, the destination and use of these funds is uncertain. while it is essential to guarantee peaceful relations with neighbouring states, as well as fundamental freedoms and the sound management of the funds allocated, financial assistance should under no circumstances be granted in return for economic and financial transformations that meet the ambitions of the european union and are contrary to the interests of ukraine. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report by a lithuanian member of parliament who, like too many baltic members of parliament, seems to want above all to revive the cold war with russia. apart from the fact that the required counterparts are part of a right of intervention that i challenge the european union, i do not believe it is responsible for paying 1.8 billion "macro-financial aid" to a country plunged into a terrible civil war... which the united states and the european union have either provoked or encouraged. does the commission and parliament want to throw oil on the fire again and take the risk of financing the armament of ukraine when the fragile minsk ii agreements have just been signed? the priority is to ensure that kiev is willing to respect the minsk agreements in order to return to the path of peace.
in writing. - i objected to this report. as ukraine is in the throes of economic chaos, the european union is considering coming to its rescue. but above all, it must be remembered that it was the european union, through its zealous atlanticism, which helped to fan the flames by supporting the real coup d'état that took place in ukraine. the result is clear: the union's unconditional russophobia, driven by a gross misunderstanding of the geography of a country cut in two, has led to economic disaster: runaway inflation (28.5%), deep recession, probability of default of almost 100%, central bank key rate of 30%, and this despite the joint assistance of the imf and the union. the commission, with the backing of parliament, has decided to give €1.8 billion to ukraine, and to do so quickly, while at the same time refusing for the time being any further aid to tsipras' greece...
in writing. the text provides for macro-financial assistance to ukraine amounting to eur 1.8 billion. the commission has also received comments from the ukrainian authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the union's policy on the protection of the environment. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the implementation of the un security council resolution on the situation in the middle east. during the orange revolution, careful observers had already noted the presence of foreign advisers and suspicious movements of funds. this interference in the internal affairs of a country is unacceptable. the current power in kiev was installed under dubious constitutional conditions, in violation of an agreement guaranteed by different powers. one can question the personality of some ukrainian officials. in addition, 'fundamental weaknesses in the ukrainian economy accumulated over the years' are noted. will the aid measures in areas such as public financial management, the fight against corruption and better tax administration be enough to encourage the kiev authorities to adopt a more sensible approach? i therefore voted against this financial aid to ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which i had already strongly opposed during its discussion and vote in the committee on international trade. while ukraine is plunged into the chaos of civil war caused by the refusal of the european union and the united states to take into account the democratically and sovereignly decided annexation of crimea and sevastopol to the russian federation the only solution of the european parliament, supporting the commission, is to inject 1.8 billion more euros into the ukrainian economy, as if geopolitical instability can be settled with big euro-dollar blows. the money, as everyone knows, will unfortunately be used more to continue financing the war than to achieve utopian economic, political and social development, which is unthinkable under the present conditions. as long as ukraine does not embark on the path of peace, the money the union will pay it will continue to finance death.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to provide macro-financial assistance to ukraine in the amount of eur 1.8 billion in the form of medium-term loans to cover its residual external financing needs for the period 2015-2016 and to facilitate the stabilisation of its economy. the assistance also involves the implementation of a national reform strategy addressing some of the weaknesses in the economy, including in public financial management, the fight against corruption, the functioning of the tax administration and the business environment. i believe that it is necessary to respond in a credible and strong way to the clear european choice made by ukraine in the last parliamentary elections last october to strengthen ties with the european union, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european parliament voted to grant ukraine €1.8 billion in macrofinancial assistance to stabilise its economy and embark on an ambitious reform programme. the already fragile economic situation in ukraine has been further damaged by the armed conflict on its territory. i therefore supported the granting of macrofinancial assistance by the european union to help ukraine, a neighbour and partner of the union, to complete its reform programme and to revitalise its external trade. the european commission will, however, have to ensure that these funds are allocated properly.
in writing. ‒ in ukraine, the economic crisis has been greatly aggravated by the armed conflict in the east of the country but also by the trade restrictions imposed by russia, in particular the gas conflict between the two countries. as a result, ukraine is no longer able to access international bond markets for financing. it is therefore important that the european union acts in support. that is why i welcome the support for the new european financial assistance plan for ukraine, in particular the disbursement of a eur 1.8 billion loan over 15 years to cover the ukrainian balance of payments deficit. in return, the ukrainian government will have to undertake a programme of reforms aimed at addressing the fundamental weaknesses in its economy and governance. the draft memorandum of understanding provides for a series of reforms: reforms in public financial management, anti-corruption measures, reforms in the tax administration and in the energy and financial sectors.
in writing. ‒ yesterday's association treaty and today's macrofinancial assistance demonstrate the european union's deliberate will not to seek solutions to the ukrainian problem. the european countries do not have to substitute themselves for the united states in their game of absolute confrontation with russia. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text granting macro-financial assistance to ukraine of eur 1.8 billion, subject to political and financial conditions. but these conditions are far too low for the european union to afford such an expense. if ukraine needs funding after capital flight and the deterioration of its balance of payments, it is well known that this decision is motivated by the association agreement and the european neighbourhood policy, the validity of which i question. on the other hand, we are not sure where these funds are going and how they are being used in the country: it is obviously not desirable that paramilitary and warmongering militias receive such sums when a ceasefire has just come into force. in addition, structural reforms of the economy are required, in the direction of very broad liberalization, which i cannot support. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to provide ukraine with an additional €1.8 billion of macro-financial assistance. ukraine is currently in an extremely difficult situation. the persistence of structural economic imbalances and the outbreak of armed conflict have plunged the country into a real recession. this aid will help to facilitate the return to a stable economy and will also support the new government in its reform efforts. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. - i vote against it. the text proposes to formulate requirements for structural reforms leading to budgetary reorientation and economic or regulatory transformations accompanied by a demand for market opening and liberalisation. this policy is justified by the foreign policy, the association agreement and the european neighbourhood policy, projects which the national front opposes. the fact that the guarantees of democratic exercise are being tested is understandable, but demanding reforms in return for financial aid is unacceptable. it is enough for the european union to have the assurance that the funds allocated are being properly managed and that the fundamental freedoms are being respected. they are evidence of a willingness to honor the commitment.
in writing. ‒ macro-financial assistance (mfa) is an exceptional crisis response instrument that the european union makes available to its partner countries experiencing serious balance of payments problems. the report proposes to pay 1.8 billion euros to ukraine. it should be noted that ukraine has already benefited from this fund amounting to eur 1,610 billion, to which are added other european (neighbourhood policy, humanitarian aid) and international (imf, world bank) aid totalling eur 40 billion over four years. this fund is of course subject to certain conditions, such as the implementation of structural or macroeconomic reforms. i am not in favour of the ukrainian people being subjected to the yoke of the institutions of brussels in addition to the imf. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ peaceful relations with the union's neighbours should be promoted. we cannot accept demands for reforms imposed in return for financial aid, which is a form of interference. the guarantee of sound management of the funds allocated and the guarantees of fundamental freedoms are sufficient and constitute a clear commitment to respect for sovereignty. therefore, it is not desirable to support such aid in its present form.
in writing. ‒ as ukraine is in the throes of economic chaos, the european union is considering coming to its rescue. but above all, it must be remembered that it was the european union, through its zealous atlanticism, which helped to fan the flames by supporting the real coup d'état that took place in ukraine. the result is clear: the union's unconditional russophobia, driven by a gross misunderstanding of the geography of a country cut in two, has led to economic disaster: runaway inflation (28.5%), deep recession, probability of default of almost 100%, central bank key rate of 30%, and this despite the joint assistance of the imf and the union. the commission, with the backing of parliament, has decided to give €1.8 billion to ukraine, and to do so quickly, while at the same time refusing for the time being any further aid to tsipras' greece... in these circumstances i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the european union is lending €1.8 billion to ukraine to help it close its balance of payments deficit as it no longer has access to international debt markets and cannot borrow money itself. the union will therefore borrow this money in its stead and lend it to it at the same interest rate. i should like to say that i voted for this text because it provides in advance for a memorandum of understanding by which ukraine commits itself to implementing reforms in public financial management, anti-corruption measures, changes in the tax administration, reforms in the energy and financial sectors and measures to improve the business environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will allow for additional financial assistance to ukraine of eur 1.8 billion, on top of the eur 1.61 billion already paid in 2014. we recognize that this country, which has been hit hard by armed conflict, is also suffering the consequences of the trade and gas restrictions imposed by russia, which are leading to an economic recession, capital flight and a depreciation of its currency. it is important that this assistance be conditional on the commitment of the ukrainian government to structural reforms, with the aim of driving a virtuous circle out of the crisis. we have worked quickly to ensure that this aid can be given to ukraine in the near future, which is our responsibility as europeans.
in writing. the national front has spoken out against this report. the text proposes a loan of eur 1.8 billion, to be disbursed in instalments and subject to political and financial conditions. in its efforts to promote peaceful international relations, the front national refuses to interfere in the affairs of other states in return for financial aid. the guarantee of sound management of the funds allocated and the guarantees of fundamental freedoms are sufficient and constitute a clear commitment to respect for sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ although this annual report on taxation raises the question of greater harmonisation of tax policies, its main subject is the fight against tax fraud. it provides for strict control of rewriting practices and increased severity in dealing with fraud. following the successive tax events of 2014, such as the luxleaks scandal, which threaten our economy, urgent action is needed. the report states that companies that commit fraud or establish themselves in tax havens will not have access to eu funds, state aid or public procurement. lawyers, banks or audit firms that have helped to commit fraud will also be sanctioned. all these measures seem to me appropriate and legitimate. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today on the annual report on taxation, a text brought by the socialist mep eva kaili. the text recalls the extent of tax fraud and tax evasion in europe: each year, almost €1 trillion is avoided from the tax revenues of the member states, even though public finances have been severely affected by the economic and financial crisis. the resolution contains several strong messages that the european parliament wants to convey to the council: the discussions on the financial transaction tax (ftt) have gone on too long, the 11 member states participating in enhanced cooperation must finally take their responsibilities to set up this instrument of fiscal justice. the commission is also proposing to make the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), the first step towards tax harmonization, compulsory in the european commission's proposal, which is expected in june.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the luxleaks scandal involving the current president of the european commission, mr jean-claude juncker, ms kaili's report quite logically denounces tax fraud by calling for sanctions. the national front, which calls for an end to aggressive tax optimisation, is of course in favour of this because it is the member states and, with them, their honest taxpayers who are the first victims. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which is rather in the right direction, but i remain vigilant against the temptation of some to impose tax harmonization on us which would deprive the member states of their sovereignty in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the report commends the efforts made to increase transparency on tax evasion. however, this is optimism and blindness. european law provides for the free movement of capital between the member states of the union and with third countries. the strategy of tax optimisation with tax havens, which are usually island-based, would thus not be resolved. the measures envisaged will only shift the problem by increasingly sophisticated tax engineering on the part of multinationals. tax harmonization is a trick, since competition will always lead some countries to adopt aggressive policies. after having opened up the frontiers, the union is surprised that vat, a tax which was initially impossible to avoid, is subject to such behaviour, and therefore proposes a harmonization of rates, which would be contrary to all sound economic sense, as the needs of the countries differ so much. finally, we have the financial transaction tax, which the current commissioner moscovici refused in 2013 when he was minister of economy... in short, this report ignores the will of the states and the fact that they must remain sovereign in tax matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is broadly in line with our proposals in the national front to frame taxation. i therefore support proposals such as an end to aggressive tax optimisation practices or banking secrecy. i would like to point out, however, the continuing hypocrisy of the european institutions in this matter, since they decide to punish tax fraud after having turned a blind eye to the actions of jean-claude juncker when he was in charge in luxembourg. we must also be vigilant against the temptation to harmonize, which would open the pandora's box of a fiscal union that would be contrary to the interests of the member states themselves.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to take stock of the main tax developments in 2014 and shows that, although the european union's competence in direct and indirect taxation remains limited in the treaties and constrained by the unanimity procedure in the council, the union is increasingly investing in this key area. in 2014, the co-legislators adopted legislative initiatives against money laundering and in favour of the automatic exchange of information in tax matters, and the european commission has just proposed to make the exchange of information on cross-border tax rulings mandatory. the report calls on the commission to present concrete proposals to combat the vat gap, tax fraud and tax evasion, and to consider the principle of introducing a minimum rate of corporation tax. i believe that the union must make progress on the question of fraud, competition and tax harmonization in the internal market, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european parliament has here wished to address the various european approaches to tax policy in the context of an ever closer integration of the internal market for the benefit of businesses and consumers. i am therefore particularly in favour of continuing our efforts to put an end to banking secrecy in the european union and the practice of tax rescripts by which member states and certain multinationals agree to attract companies at the expense of the tax systems of other member states.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion must be a priority for the european union. this is the spirit of this european parliament resolution, which deals with a wide range of taxation-related issues and lays the foundations for the future work of the european parliament's special committee on taxation records. what we are expecting is a series of concrete proposals to combat effectively tax evasion and tax evasion, which cost europe more than 2 000 billion a year. what we want is social and fiscal harmonization to put an end to excessive distortions within the union.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this text in order to see a process of tax equalization initiated at eu level. the differences in treatment, as revealed in the luxleaks case, for example, must no longer be tolerated in order to put an end to the social dumping and inequalities that we denounce and of which the european union has become a specialist. as long as bilateral agreements cannot be negotiated outside the framework of the union, this type of minimum relationship must be defended, despite the serious shortcomings it contains, particularly with regard to the hypocrisy of the union towards ireland, which has been granted financial aid without any consideration, which obviously goes against the ambition of equalization.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the annual report on taxation. the report stresses, among other things, the need for a common approach to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it also promotes better fiscal coordination with a view to a growth-oriented economic policy. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. - i'm voting for it. we are always wary of any policy of harmonisation, for fear of being trapped by it, and we wonder how the european union can reconcile healthy tax competition between member states with greater harmonisation of tax policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. some important measures are interesting and in line with our own demands, such as strict controls on rescripting practices and increased severity in dealing with fraud, the principle of paying tax where businesses use public services, sanctions (withdrawal of authorizations) against lawyers, banks or audit firms that have helped tax fraud, denial of access to union funds, state aid and public procurement for companies guilty of fraud or that are established in tax havens.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on taxation purports to combat tax evasion - a commendable intention. it called for the abolition of banking secrecy and condemned the implementation of secret tax-exemption agreements between certain member states and certain multinational companies. but beyond the intentions, the report lacks ambition. the proposals of my group to shift the tax burden to the highest earners or to introduce a minimum european corporate tax have been rejected. but above all, the fight against fraud is part of the european semester, whose "country-specific recommendations must be accepted". finally, as regards taxation, the proposals are as usual aimed at 'removing tax obstacles and administrative burdens' on businesses. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ 2014 was marked by the announced end of banking secrecy in europe, but also by the luxleaks case, which revealed the practices of some states in helping to aggressively optimise taxation. the kaili report takes a critical approach, rightly denouncing all forms of tax evasion and its corollaries and calling for sanctions. the victims of these practices are the states from which the profits are transferred and their taxpayers. the idea of sanctioning consultancies that have helped multinationals in these proceedings and of depriving the companies responsible of access to european funds and public contracts should be supported. i am, however, still firmly opposed to any form of tax harmonization imposed on member states by the commission. tax sovereignty is one of the last areas of competence which require unanimity, and it must remain so. finally, we must demand that the tax evasion be refunded to the states where the profits originate, i.e. those where these same companies use public services.
in writing. ‒ the report commends the efforts made in the area of transparency on tax evasion. however, this is optimism and blindness. european law provides for the free movement of capital between the member states of the union and with third countries. the tax optimisation strategy with tax havens, which are usually island-based, would thus not be settled at all. the measures envisaged will only shift the problem by increasingly sophisticated tax engineering by multinational firms. tax harmonisation is a decoy, since competition will always push some countries to adopt aggressive policies. after opening up its borders, the union is surprised that vat, a tax which was originally chargeable, is subject to such behaviour, and therefore proposes a harmonisation of rates, which would be contrary to any sound economic sense, as the needs of the countries differ. finally, we have the financial transaction tax, which the current commissioner moscovici refused in 2013 when he was minister of economy... in short, this report ignores the will of the states and the fact that they must remain sovereign in tax matters. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on taxation recalls that tax fraud and evasion deprive the european union of €1 trillion in revenue each year, to the detriment of citizens and bona fide businesses. the report also stresses that european citizens expect their political leaders to take swift action to put an end to fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. the text calls for the abolition of banking secrecy and the development of automatic systems for the exchange of tax information between member states and third countries. finally, the report stresses that our tax policies must converge towards greater harmonisation and limit the burden on smes. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
‒ i support the principles contained in this report, which aim to reduce tax evasion. at the same time, however, i am convinced that the european union should not aim at tax harmonisation that would restrict tax competition between member states. for this reason, i voted against paragraph 25, which called on the commission to carefully consider the possibility of introducing a minimum rate of corporation tax as a means of 'curbing harmful tax competition'. since this point has been passed and i do not consider tax competition to be harmful, i abstained from voting on the whole report, even though it contains some positive proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's annual report on taxation. this resolution, which i supported, deals with tax policy in europe by looking at three areas in particular: strengthening the internal market by reducing incompatibilities between national laws, promoting tax coordination to generate growth and employment and finally fighting tax fraud and tax evasion. we call on the european commission to come forward with far-reaching proposals against tax havens and tax evasion in the first six months of 2015. an important element of this text is the commitment by 11 european states to introduce a financial transaction tax (ftt). this is a key measure which all member states should consider. i would like to add a nuance to paragraph 23 of the report in this context, where we ask that the tff's revenue should be included in the own resources of the budget of the european union. the tff must contribute to the own resources, but let us not forget that part of the revenue is earmarked for aid to developing countries.
mr president, i consider this to be a very serious matter. we have seen the ravages of globalism, of the most cynical international capitalism, the kind that benefits from low wages, from people who work in conditions of slavery and whose products then come free of customs duties, ruining our enterprise in whole and in part. i also believe that this policy has been responsible for hundreds of deaths for which we europeans and westerners are collectively, though indirectly, responsible. i therefore think that this proposal should not be taken off the agenda and should be dealt with immediately.
i'm the reporter. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a review today, albeit a technical one, which follows the very significant delay in the implementation of the operational programmes. in fact, all funds under shared management in the period 2014-2020 are concerned. at 31 december 2014, more than 300 operational programmes were not yet adopted and could not benefit from the deferral procedure provided for in article 13 of the financial regulation. all member states are concerned. indeed, more than 21 billion euros would have been lost without this revision. in some countries, the bulk of the commitment appropriations for these programmes are even affected. some examples: for the czech republic, 99.6% of funds would be lost, for romania, 80%, for spain, over 60%, and for the united kingdom, over 50%. fortunately, article 19 of the multiannual financial framework allows for an amendment to be introduced by 1 may this year to transfer the allocations from 2014 to 2015 in the event of non-adaptation of these programmes. for all these reasons, you will understand why we are voting in favour of this amendment. however, given the territorial impact for all countries and the equally considerable amounts at stake, this foreseeable revision adds to the worrying dysfunctions of our budgets. firstly, this situation raises the question once again of the sincerity of our budgetary decisions, since at the time they were taken we were behind schedule and we knew it. secondly, in the context of a chronic investment deficit in europe, such a delay in the arrival of the structural funds, linked to the validation of the operational programmes, is hardly acceptable and delays investment on the ground. thirdly, this delay in implementation will also have an impact on payment appropriations because by shifting commitments by one year, the entire payments could be shifted by that amount, which would add additional pressure on the union's payment appropriations at the end of the period of the multiannual financial framework. we are all familiar with the snowball effect, the accumulation of unpaid invoices which undermine the union's credibility by leaving thousands of project promoters in the face of this budgetary cavalry. i hope that this revision will not aggravate the current crisis in payments, but it may nevertheless exacerbate the crisis that awaits us at the end of the period, and i welcome all the more the commission's declarations in which it undertakes to use all the flexibilities offered by the multiannual financial framework to limit the consequences of this revision. however, i am afraid, madam commissioner, that this flexibility is not enough. parliament had already expressed its concerns when the cfp was agreed in 2013. this financial framework - which is now declining for the first time in the history of european integration - was and remains inadequate and inadequate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the crisis of unpaid debts, the european fund for strategic investments and the flexibility reserve: this is the first non-exhaustive list of expenditure. but we are all aware here of the council's budgetary insincerity and the lamentable negotiations on the annual budget. and all this leads us to reflect on the very structure of the budget of the european union. this revision - not the technical revision, but the political revision which lies ahead - offers us all a historic opportunity. we owe this opportunity or this duty to three elements. firstly, the elections were a wake-up call for european citizens, some of whom expressed their doubts and others their rejection of the union. secondly, the economic crisis requires us to take counter-cyclical action, where the european budget must take its full place, as is clearly seen in the debate on the efsi. finally, of course, there is the democratic question, the question of political responsibility which we as legislators face. has there ever been a parliament which voted on budgetary expenditure without asking about revenue? it is a bit like the world upside down: we spend without being in the least responsible for the revenue and without raising taxes. at present, the contributions of the member states constitute 75% of the union's budget, a situation which feeds the logic of what is improperly called the fair return, which breaks community ambitions. a budgetary structure which is fuelling the crisis of payments by turning the union's budget into a variable for adjusting national budgets, but above all destroys the solidarity between the citizens and peoples of europe, which is the indispensable driving force behind our common project. the commissioner, we must announce the great return of own resources, which will make it possible to tackle the major challenges of the common market and to accompany the project of european society. commissioner, my call for a genuine post-electoral review of the multiannual financial framework is based mainly on the fact that i share the commission's view. we are at a turning point in the construction of europe and, in the face of the rise of populist nationalists, we cannot afford the luxury of failure for lack of ambition. this technical revision calls for a political revision of the budget as from 2016. you can count on the support of the democrats in this house to that end and we look forward to your proposals.
mr president, this report, although technical, reminds us how we are faced with a recurring situation which points to some malfunctions in the european union. but at the same time, as mrs thomas said, it makes it possible to imagine possible improvements in the financing of structural and cohesion policies. i should like to take this opportunity to stress first of all the need to communicate more to citizens and local authorities, who are rarely properly informed of the benefits of europe in their own territory. secondly, i would like to point out the important leverage effect of these resources for the states and local and regional authorities, particularly for investment. finally, i call for simplification of the procedures for co-construction and validation of structural policies to allow for greater fluidity and reliability, which will encourage local actors to make greater use of the structural funds. i think there is an absolute need to make these structural funds more accessible so that we do not end up with unused funds. they must be an accelerator of project implementation and not an administrative and structuring machine.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 must of course be voted on. but this necessity highlights the burdensome, complex and inert nature of our procedures. at a time when everyone is sounding the alarm about the chronic investment deficit in europe, which is undermining growth and creating mass unemployment, we must postpone 21 billion euros because we have failed to validate programmes and projects. this fact demands that we review our private practices of government and political management. the european union is governed by rules, at the risk of creating a technocratic and bureaucratic monster. i therefore call for a drastic simplification of our rules and procedures. but, madam vice-president, since you have mentioned the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, i would like you to include in your proposals adjustments to the commitment and payment appropriations which will prevent us from sacrificing the appropriations for the connecting europe facility and horizon 2020, which are so essential for the future. because these are investments for the future.
mr president, the purpose of the revision of the multiannual financial framework is to transfer to subsequent years eur 21 billion in commitment appropriations which were not used in 2014, equivalent to 15% of the 2014 budget. it is a purely technical revision, but it also reveals very serious, even scandalous, elements of substance. i am referring in particular to the stock of unpaid debts which is growing year by year, thus showing a totally sclerotic and bureaucratic management. despite the 4.8 billion euros obtained in the trilogue, at the end of 2014, the amount of unpaid invoices amounted to more than 24 billion euros compared to 11 billion in 2011. and we're still waiting on a cleanup plan. in the meantime, the costs are borne by the local authorities. this absurd system justifies for some a new federal leap, which is nothing more than a leap into the void and would be an intolerable attack on the sovereignty of the states. the only answer to this appalling management is to leave the member states full sovereignty over their budgets and the allocation of investments. finally, all this should not make us forget that france benefits little from this system since in 2013 it was a net contributor to the union budget of eur 9,4 billion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would also like to thank the commissioner for her explanations, although we will have further meetings tomorrow on the payment side. i also note the interest of my colleagues in all these budgetary matters - which is very good news - and i would like to make an appointment with all of us for the revision of the multiannual financial framework which you have mentioned, which will this time be not only technical but also political.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working for some months now on the adoption of this european text on the commemoration of the centenary of the armenian genocide. this is a european issue first and foremost. it is about the past and its truth, about the future and its promises. this text was successfully negotiated and i publicly thank the political groups and all our colleagues who took part in it. the centenary of that tragic event demands a dignified attitude, and parliament has succeeded in doing so. i am wearing a button-down, mr president, a myosotis, which is called vergissmeinnicht in german. i would like to thank mr brok and mr fleckenstein in particular for their words of tribute and for the words they have spoken. i will, of course, be a little more demanding. i would have liked the spirit of these texts to be more commemorative and more focused on the continuing links between armenian civil society and turkish civil society, which has been repressed when it wants the genocide to be recognised. i must say publicly that we cannot yet be satisfied - even if we are moving in the right direction - with the vague condolences of prime minister erdoğan, now president, and mr davutoğlu, for the victims who have died, been killed, murdered and whose families have been thrown on the roads all over europe. i will therefore say something rather simple: where is the turkish willy brandt today, the german who, in november 1970, went to poland to kneel - not to speak - before the monument to the jewish victims in warsaw, thus showing the world that there could be no history and no future without the recognition of the truth? one more effort, mr. erdoğan, and you may be a statesman.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express our sympathy and solidarity with our armenian friends throughout the world, whose rights and recognition of the genocide we have been defending for many years. i would also like to greet all my french compatriots of armenian origin whose civilization and patriotism are exemplary and who have never ceased to cherish the memory of their great civilization. as a member of the delegation to the eu-turkey joint parliamentary committee in the european parliament, i would like to denounce once again the outrageous attitude of mr erdoğan, locked in his sickly denialism and inhumanity, who claims that the recognition of the armenian genocide is not part of the copenhagen criteria. at a time when another genocide - that of the christians of the east - is being perpetrated before our eyes, it should be known that it was also because they were christians that more than one and a half million armenians were massacred by the ottoman regime of that time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our institution already recognized the armenian genocide of 1915 in 1987. and today, with this new resolution, we commemorate this undeniable historic event: it is its 100th anniversary. i would like to say, commissioner, that we should use the word 'genocide' and not 'massacre'. genocide is genocide! we have all fought in our member states for the recognition of this genocide, so this word has historical significance. i would also like to pay tribute to the victims of the armenian genocide, which is far from being a detail of the history of the ottoman empire and which turkey should stop denying. if turkey recognizes itself as the heir of the ottoman empire, it must also consider itself the heir of its history and therefore of the armenian genocide. that is why i would also like to pay tribute to those who in turkey have helped to begin to lift the taboo on genocide and who will be commemorating the armenian genocide in istanbul next week. let me remind my colleagues that the turkish green party recognises the armenian genocide and that it is the responsibility of the other european political groups to act so that the other turkish political partners do the same. finally, and i would like to end on this sentence, as the pope reminded us this week, "to conceal or deny evil is to let an open wound bleed without dressing it".
in writing. one hundred years ago, pope francis, in his homily on april 12, 2015, described the first of "three massive tragedies" that have befallen humanity in the 20th century, the dark ages. i would like to pay tribute here to the armenian people, whose massacre was planned by the dying ottoman empire: a million armenians, including women and children, murdered between 1915 and 1916. following his holiness pope francis, we must tell the armenian people that we remember; we remember, not to judge the past, but because keeping the past in mind, of what we have been and what we are is necessary to build the future. we must remember, as bernard of chartres said in the 12th century, that "we are like dwarfs sitting on the shoulders of giants. if we see more and more distant things than they do, it is because we are raised by them". we're no better than our ancestors, but we have to embrace their history to rise above it.
in writing. the silence in europe over the armenian genocide is beginning to be broken. the ottoman massacre of over a million armenians, whether ignored or downplayed, is one of the most dramatic events in the opening of the 20th century. this timidity is all the more surprising since the union often arrogates to itself the right to discern the price of political morality and claims to base its action on peace, respect for peoples and fundamental rights. the turkish authorities, however, are still refusing to recognize this extermination, even though the european union wants to integrate turkey into the community of our states. the recognition of the armenian genocide is a powerful act which must restore the intellectual balance in treating the wounds of europe and its neighbours, wounds which are often still alive but which we must close by committing ourselves to what opened them. utopian political ideology, the brutality of power and clashes between religions and cultures can be avoided if we accept respect for freedoms, territories and identities. we cannot share political space with another civilization, another continent, because our relations in the city will always be different from those between europeans.
madam president, the problem facing our institution today is the same as that facing virtually all the member states. everyone has problems with this and we have found nothing better than quotas - also known as positive discrimination - to solve this problem, whether or not they are accompanied by sanctions in the event that these quotas, which seem to be in the order of 5 to 6%, are not respected. however, i think that it is perhaps a different way of looking at disability that is problematic, and at the same time at the disabled person himself. this permanent notion of profitability and profit means that, in many cases, people with disabilities or functional difficulties may not have the same "performance" as their colleagues without disabilities. i think there is a very good solution: to set the budget available for disability compensation from the outset. from that point on, whether recruiting for reserved or non-reserved posts or for officials who have functional difficulties and are therefore disabled, if we have the financial leeway to support them, they will, of course, be given preference, with equal and, above all, superior skills. positive discrimination would then be based from the outset on the abilities of these people, who are often much more developed than others.
madam president, we are dealing with a subject which really concerns each one of us, because disability is something which may as well concern us or one of our relatives tomorrow. we're not talking about a population outside of ourselves, we're talking about ourselves and how we look at others. the first thing i would like to say to you, commissioner, is that the only thing that gives me confidence is your determination. but until we have a numbered scoreboard on the integration of disabled people and the promotion of disabled people, we will not be able to make any progress on the integration of disabled people. i am not a woman who defends quotas, but at least they have a purpose, which is to look at what we actually do. i am a member of the college of quaestors, so i can see the diversity of requests from our colleagues who are disabled and the improvements in the workplaces we have to make. and if there is one thing i am confident about, it is your determination and our willingness to all of us in the european institutions, in the context of our new working environment, to fully integrate this dimension of the integration of disability and disabled people into our steering. what we ask of the member states we must apply to ourselves. this is our vision, this is a founding value of europe, so remain as determined as you are today to succeed.
in writing. this is a question of quotas for the employment of disabled people in the institutions of the european union. i would remind you that such measures are already being applied in france in both the private and public sectors. it should be noted that the unemployment rate of disabled people exceeded 21% in 2012, despite the legislation and the many awareness campaigns on this subject (for example: week for the employment of disabled people...). so the subject is important and timely. i reject any notion of positive discrimination, but i believe it is necessary to help disabled people to find employment like everyone else.
in writing. this text revisits the quotas for the recruitment of disabled people in the institutions of the european union. such measures already exist in france. it should be recalled that the unemployment rate of disabled people in france exceeded 21% in 2012 and that despite the law, numerous communications and awareness campaigns on this subject (employment week for disabled people ...), the problem remains significant. while i do not accept the notion of positive discrimination, i think it is perfectly normal to help disabled people find employment like everyone else.
mr president, i am opposed to the draft nrp agreement with mexico in both form and substance. the european union is ready to give in to the dictates of mexico. mexico had ordered him to sign the agreement by april 1. on 27 march, the commissioner for migration, mr avramopoulos, shamefully relented and obtained a postponement of the mexican ultimatum until 1 july. after that date, airlines will be fined $30,000 per flight to mexico. on the substance, i condemn this pnr agreement which will seriously infringe the privacy of passengers, in violation of the charter of fundamental rights and the judgment of the court of justice of 8 april 2014. the pnr agreement with canada, which is also problematic, has just been referred to the court of justice by parliament. the fight against terrorism will not be won by a global checklist of millions of honest people who fly.
in writing. ‒ following the judicial liquidation of the french company mory global, announced on 31 march 2015, the french authorities requested eur 6 050 000 from the globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of the 2 513 workers made redundant. the economic and financial crisis is cited as the main cause of the company's bankruptcy. however, not a word is said about the issue of intra-european competition and the movement towards deregulation of road freight transport, which favours the flexibility of the players in the sector and puts french companies with high rates of charges in competition with companies with low charges. the proposal also envisages placing the sector under the seconded workers' scheme. this will not solve the problem of the cost differential, since social security contributions will be paid in the country of establishment of the company. this aid mechanism could therefore in its logic encourage redundancies. however, since no other solutions have been considered, the employees need this help for their professional reconversion. i therefore voted in favour of the request.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, due in particular to the financial crisis in the united states, the volumes to be transported have decreased, while gasoline prices have risen and a price war has broken out in the sector. in november 2013, mory-ducros, the former french number two in road transport, was declared insolvent before closing permanently in may 2014. while almost half of its employees were rehired by a new company, more than 2,500 others remained on the job. i therefore supported the request by france for aid of eur 6 052 200 to be granted to these 2 513 former mory-ducros employees. the annual ceiling for the 'globalization adjustment fund' for the period 2014-2020 has been set at eur 150 million. i am convinced, however, that this money could be better spent and that the european union should first seek to address the causes rather than the consequences of the difficulties facing our businesses, from unfair competition from companies outside the community - and sometimes within the community - to relocations resulting from the stubborn refusal to take the necessary protectionist measures.
in writing. ‒ the judicial liquidation of the mory-ducros company is emblematic of the serious threats to employment and the economy in france. while the main cause cited is the financial crisis, which caused a 21% decline in road freight transport between 2007 and 2009, our governments are thus pretending not to see that the problem is much bigger. they deliberately conceal the real reasons for this bankruptcy: the tax burden on our companies, the administrative burdens, a far too expensive single currency and above all unfair competition in this sector within the union itself because of the so-called 'posted workers' directive. the liquidation of mory-ducros, which had laid off more than 2 800 employees, is now being supplemented by the liquidation of moryglobal, which is cutting off a further 2 150 jobs. france has therefore requested the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support 2 513 workers made redundant by mory ducros for an amount of eur 6 052 million. i voted for that help.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply sorry that this vote has not taken place until after the recent liquidation of "moryglobal". the workers in this group, who are the direct victims of a globalisation that must be fought, will appreciate... i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which will enable the 2 513 workers laid off in mory-ducros, victims of a europe that is being exploited by competition whose damage is only beginning to be seen, to receive aid of eur 6 052 200.
in writing. ‒ the crisis facing road haulage companies is unprecedented. according to the bank of france, bankruptcies in the sector increased by 35% per year between 2007 and 2013. this decline is due primarily to the slowdown in physical production in europe as a result of deindustrialisation, which has led to a price war in an increasingly competitive market. in addition, the increase in the prices of oil and certain materials has led to a sharp deterioration in operating margins. finally, competition from eastern companies, which enjoyed complete freedom of movement, gave the final blow to mory-ducros sas. this means that nearly 2 804 workers have been sacrificed on the altar of the european single market and the total opening up of frontiers. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) only helps people to make a career change, but it does not create jobs. that is why only an ambitious policy of reindustrialisation will prevent social tragedies such as that of mory-ducros. in support of the workers, i of course voted for the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the workers made redundant by the french company mory-ducros. the amount of the aid is eur 6 052 200. some 2 513 redundant workers will be able to benefit from training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. this request from france is justified in view of the price war in the road transport sector following the reduction in transport volumes and the general decrease in physical production in europe. these are the direct consequences of the economic and financial crisis. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in support of the 2513 employees of the mory-ducros company. i am all the more concerned that the largest share of redundancies has been in the ile-de-france region, my constituency, where i have often seen the economic and social damage caused by the deindustrialisation of our country. mory-ducros has suffered the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. thus, according to eurostat, between 2007 and 2012, the road transport of goods in road vehicles over 3.5 tonnes decreased by 13.7% in the european union as a whole and by 21% in france. the price war resulting from this decrease, together with the evolution of various costs to the upside (materials, gasoline, wages) caused an increase in the bankruptcies of companies related to this sector of 35% per year between 2007 and 2013 according to the estimates of the banque de france. as a patriotic member of parliament who is concerned about the future of our businesses and, above all, about the precarious situation faced by many of our fellow citizens, i could only support the denanot report, which will provide them with financial compensation and thus provide them with some relief.
in writing. the global economic and financial crisis has had a negative impact on physical production in europe and, therefore, on the volumes to be transported. according to the banque de france, bankruptcies in the road freight transport sector increased by 35% per year between 2007 and 2013, and the case of mory-ducros is a notable illustration of this. that is why i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the 2 513 former employees of this company, so that they can benefit from personalised services to re-enter the labour market. i was also sensitive to the situation of 17% of the employees laid off who belong to the 55-64 age group. these people are more at risk of longterm unemployment and social exclusion and need targeted support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this, following the judicial liquidation of mory-global, is common sense. the european union cannot afford to avoid a situation which it has itself created. the 2315 workers concerned are suffering from the globalist and free trade policies promoted by the european commission. we cannot guarantee the employment of the french unless we put an end to unfair competition which is causing lower wages and worsening working conditions. the mobilisation of this fund therefore appears as compensation for the loss suffered by employees. however, we must be careful that this does not become an automatic process. the aid granted makes it possible to deal exclusively with the form of the problem, without considering its substance, leading to a repetition of the situation. i would remind you that the most just measure, well before compensation, is the preservation of french jobs through a national, independent and realistic economic policy.
in writing. ‒ france has applied for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies at the end of 2013 of 2 513 employees at 84 sites in france at mory-ducros sas. this group was once the number two french road haulage group. the messenger market has been in a state of disarray for several years, according to industry experts, due to high gasoline prices, fierce competition and the economic crisis, which has reduced the production of material goods in europe. the banque de france mentions a decrease in transported volumes of 21% in france between 2007 and 2012, following the economic crisis. the company, which was recently taken over as moryglobal by its main shareholder, arcoles industries, has experienced insurmountable difficulties which have led to its judicial liquidation. this means that in total almost 5 000 employees will have been dismissed over the course of three years, creating a social catastrophe of great proportions in france. i therefore voted in favour of this aid of eur 6 052 000 to support the conversion of dismissed employees under the best possible conditions.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the granting of aid of eur 6.05 million to former employees of mory-ducros. such aid will facilitate the re-employment of workers made redundant as a result of the economic crisis and austerity policies following a contraction in domestic demand in the various member states between 2007 and 2012 which saw a 21% decline in road freight transport. the link between the redundancies and the economic and financial crisis is established in the present case and authorises the granting of monetary aid. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jean-paul denanot on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of the mory-ducros company. the fund will provide eur 6.52 million to 2 513 redundant employees of the mory-ducros carrier to finance training, advisory services or start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. this fund shows europe's practical action towards citizens. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund introduced by france following redundancies at mory-ducros sas. the fund was set up to help reintegrate into the labour market workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation or the financial crisis. it also aims to promote the reintegration of dismissed employees into the labour market. i therefore welcome the adoption of this aid amounting to eur 6 052 200.
in writing. ‒ having already made it known in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of the denanot report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for former employees of the french company mory ducros s.a.s. 2 513 redundant employees working at 84 sites in france will receive a grant of eur 6 052 200 from the egf for a project of eur 10 087 000. the plan will allow the creation of a recruitment unit to provide advice and reorientation of dismissed employees so that they can best adapt their skills to the requirements of the labour market. i would encourage the french authorities to make a new request for the mobilisation of the egf following the judicial liquidation of the mory global company a few weeks ago. like their former colleagues, recently dismissed employees are fully entitled to receive financial and logistical assistance from the union in connection with their future redeployment. i will certainly fight for this request for european aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the denanot report to mobilise more than €6 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the redundant employees of the former french road haulage company mory-ducros. this support of eur 6 052 200 will enable 2 513 employees of the company, which until may 2014 operated at 84 sites across france, to receive expert advice on individual career paths and training to develop their job search skills. by supporting this new aid, the european parliament is once again demonstrating the european union's capacity to respond in a concrete way to the economic and social upheavals caused by the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting eur 6.05 million to the 2 513 workers made redundant by the road transport company mory-ducros, because it is important to show solidarity with them. but i would like to stress that the european union bears a great deal of responsibility for what has happened to them. it imposed a policy of austerity on france which depressed domestic demand for road transport. secondly, and above all, it has organised unfair competition by allowing european road transport companies, particularly from eastern europe, to carry out cabotage in france. cabotage is authorised by the european regulation of 21 october 2009. this regulation allows lorries of these foreign companies to benefit from international transport in france in order to carry out three additional loading and unloading operations before returning to their country. eastern european companies pay their drivers far less than french drivers, not to mention social security contributions. this is why more and more customers prefer to use their services. and ultimately, that's one of the reasons mory-ducros fell apart.
in writing. - i'm voting for it. the european adjustment fund is intended to help employees whose sector of activity is affected by a crisis or is about to undergo structural changes. this is due to the consequences of free trade and globalisation. this is the case for redundant road haulage workers. the financial crisis is not the only cause of the difficult situation of this sector, austerity policies have their share of responsibility with a harmful effect on domestic demand. it is regrettable that this report does not emphasize unfair intra-european competition more than french freight companies do, particularly in the cabotage sector. the differences in pay, with the absence of a minimum wage in some european countries and the different laws, particularly in the context of social contributions, are putting french companies in difficulty. however, since the proposal in this report provides support for employees in difficulty, it seems necessary to support it.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which allocates eur 6 052 200 to 2 513 redundant workers in mory-ducros in france.
in writing. ‒ mory, a company specialised in logistics and the transport of goods by road and sea, has experienced three bankruptcies in 4 years: mory team in 2011, mory ducros in 2013 (the case under examination) and mory global in 2015. indeed, there was a decrease in road freight transport of 13.7% in the eu and 21% in france between 2007 and 2012. this decline follows the general trend of declining physical production in europe. the french state could have taken measures to respond to this phenomenon in an ecological planning objective by promoting conversion in rail freight, for example. but he prefers to blame the rise in "costs" in the sector without distinguishing between wages and basic materials (petrol). the requested funds (eur 6 million) will be used to fund the 2014 employment protection plan before a new request is made to allow the next plan for mory-global to be put in place. the fund for aiding globalisation is thus playing its destructive role, in effect encouraging shareholders and governments to embrace the social irresponsibility of capitalism. i'm not going to vote on it because i don't want to deprive the workers of that fund.
in writing. ‒ aware that this system of aid and redistribution will not solve the problem in the long term and that the european union is partly responsible for the economic and social damage, considering that european funds come from the member states and that in this case it is a french company, given the difficult situation of the people made redundant and the state of emergency of the situation, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ mory global, formerly mory ducros, has been hit hard by competition from eastern european carriers. after a first bankruptcy, it was again placed in liquidation at the end of march. the key to this was the dismissal of more than 2,000 people, or nearly 5,000 jobs, in three years. the company pays the price of opening up markets to competitors from socially less important countries, with whom the cost war is lost in advance. in order to finance the redeployment of employees, it is obviously necessary to support the release of european funds for adjustment to globalisation, even if this means having the union's taxpayers pay the price of its ultra-liberal policies.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 2 513 mory-global workers, the french authorities have requested eur 6.05 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the only reason given was the financial crisis. it deliberately omits any criticism of intra-european competition and in particular of cabotage which leads to unfair competition to the detriment of road haulage companies located in france. moreover, the proposal envisaged by some member states to subject the sector to the posted worker regime will not solve the problem of the cost differential, since social security contributions will be paid in the country of establishment of the company and the average salary of french road hauliers is higher than the smic in force. consequently, the application of the regime of posted work and the minimum wage to foreign road hauliers is only a partial solution and insufficient in view of the distortion of competition which has been created. while the logic of this mechanism of ex post aid is objectionable since it dampens or may even encourage redundancies, the aid in the present case appears to be indispensable for the conversion of the workers made redundant by mory-global. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the aim is to mobilise the fund to the tune of eur 6 million to support the redeployment of 2 513 employees made redundant following the bankruptcy and closure of the french road haulage operator mory-ducros. road freight transport has been hit hard by the economic crisis. activity fell by 13.7% in europe and by 21% in france. at the same time, costs have risen (gasoline, labour, materials). mory-ducros, once france's second largest road haulage operator, was not able to cope with this shock. the european union is therefore providing protection and assistance to the most vulnerable redundant workers. almost 1 in 5 beneficiaries of this intervention is over 50 years old.
in writing. following the dismissal of more than 2 500 employees of mory-ducros at various industrial sites, this report proposes the mobilisation of a budget of more than €6 million to cover part of the measures taken to support the workers made redundant. the aim of this system is to identify, validate and shape the professional project of each employee, identify the training or adaptation needs necessary for the implementation of this project and accompany the employee until he actually returns to work, without any time limit, the support ending only when the national monitoring committee has validated the return to work. i voted in favour of this proposal, of course.
in writing. ‒ once again, the dogma of free competition has generated an unbearable pressure for a french company. again, instead of tackling the root of the problem, funds are simply being raised to help employees by offering training in the hypothetical benefits. i cannot of course refuse to help these workers who are victims of absurd political choices, but i am fully convinced that i am in favour of this report, another cautious step on a wooden leg.
in writing. today, i must also add my somewhat traditional comment that i supported the report, although i am somewhat concerned to see the almost exclusive use of the european globalisation adjustment fund for companies from the so-called old member states. i still believe that in the near future, this trend will ease.
in writing. ‒ the fund was called in 2015 for an amount of over eur 6 million to support the reintegration of dismissed employees of the mory-ducros group. i strongly support this request and would like to stress the importance of such a european instrument to help and support european citizens directly affected by globalisation. this aid will finance the vocational reorientation of these workers and their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the granting of eur 6 million in aid to former employees of the french carrier mory-ducros. the french company had to close down in may 2014 after experiencing severe economic difficulties for several years. while almost half of its employees were re-employed by another company, 2 513 workers are now unemployed. the french authorities have applied to the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the fund allows, under certain conditions, financial assistance to be granted to employees made redundant as a result of major changes in international trade, such as globalisation or the global economic crisis. this support from the union is essential and is in addition to the measures already taken by the french state to facilitate the reintegration of dismissed persons into the labour market. the funds will enable them to receive personalised and regular support in building their new career path, advice or various types of training to maximise their chances of returning to a sustainable job. it is now up to the council to approve the french authorities' request so that the €6 million in aid can be put into effect and benefit french workers.
in writing. ‒ our delegation almost always votes on requests to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, because it is a programme to support employees in companies that are sometimes forced to lay off workers under the pressure of market deregulation, the consequences of the disastrous ultra-liberal policies applied within this european union that is unable to defend the people who make it up or the companies that make it live.
in writing. ‒ this draft council decision aims to establish the social protection committee. the committee has an advisory role and is responsible for advising the ministers for employment and social protection on the objectives of the european semester. it is intended to monitor the social situation in the european union and to strengthen cooperation between member states in the field of social protection. as with the employment committee, the council does not need the opinion of the european parliament to adopt this draft. in addition, the committee has a thematic and multilateral monitoring role for reforms undertaken by the countries of the union. the countries must submit national reports to the commission, which then examines them. once again, therefore, we are dealing with the establishment of yet another committee which interferes in the affairs of the member states of the union. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this 'social protection committee', which is responsible for monitoring the social situation and the reforms undertaken, is supposed to meet one of the objectives set by the union: to 'modernize' social protection systems without officially prejudicing national competences. but i see here yet another committee of bureaucrats who are interfering in the affairs of the member states by monitoring the way in which they administer their social protection policies. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i objected to this report. the european parliament is asked for its opinion following the council's decision to set up the social protection committee, an advisory body to both the council and the commission. in 2013, the european council affirmed the need to strengthen the social dimension of economic and monetary union. the aim of this committee is to promote cooperation on social protection policies between the member states and with the commission. it will have the task of monitoring, exchanging information and preparing reports and opinions on social protection. this is the usual hypocrisy of the european union. while in greece the poverty rate at the 2009 level (60% of median income in 2009) jumped to 44.3%, the rate of material deprivation increased from 11% in 2009 to 20.3% in 2013, and the inability to make ends meet reached 40% in 2013 as a result of the policies imposed by the troika, the union decided to have a puppet committee without real power, whose sole role will be to divert attention from the reality of the social problems generated by european economic policies.
in writing. ‒ this committee, composed of technocrats, has an advisory role to the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council, composed of the ministers responsible for employment, social affairs, health and consumer protection of the member states of the european union. i voted against the decision establishing this committee, whose stated aim is unacceptable interference in the management of the social protection policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ while the organisation and management of social protection systems is the exclusive competence of the member states, parliament wants to better 'coordinate' social protection policies by creating a social protection committee. this is yet another gas plant that is only being used to prepare the creation of a federal social security system. already in france, and in the wake of the crisis in the rsi (social scheme for the selfemployed), legal ambiguities have led some selfemployed to believe that they can invoke european law to demand their withdrawal from the rsi. conscious of the urgent need to preserve our capacity to decide on the organisation of our social protection model, i voted against this draft council decision.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was consulted on the introduction of certain new prerogatives for the social protection committee. this committee is very important for the exchange of good practice between member states on social protection measures. in a union like ours, where free movement and freedom of establishment are fundamental principles, we must ensure that every citizen, wherever he comes from, is treated in the best possible way. in times of crisis, greater coordination is needed in social matters. i voted in favour of this decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which endorses the council's decision to create another european institution which will not only be costly but also suffer from a total democratic deficit. the role of this committee will be purely advisory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. finally, in my desire to keep social protection as a prerogative of the member states, which alone can ensure a system tailored to the needs of citizens, i could only formally oppose this report.
in writing. the organisation and financing of social protection are the responsibility of the member states. however, the modernisation of social protection systems is a major challenge and it is good to encourage convergence of approaches between the ministers of employment and social affairs on the one hand and the european commission on the other. the social protection committee has demonstrated its effectiveness in the framework of the open method of coordination (omc); this effort must be continued in the four objectives defined by the commission: making work financially attractive and guaranteeing an income, ensuring pension security and the sustainability of pension schemes, promoting social inclusion, and guaranteeing a high and sustainable level of health protection for all.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the council decision establishing the social protection committee. the aim of the social protection committee, like that of the employment committee, is to promote the integration and harmonisation of public policies in europe. i am opposed, as i have always been, to the erosion of national sovereignty and reaffirm the importance of an independent state. the abundance of consultative committees also shows that the european union is still a technocratic structure from which the citizens of the member states are excluded.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this council decision. it sets up a social protection committee whose stated objective is to reform social protection systems in the union. social protection is a matter for the member states alone, since it is the result of a particular development linked first of all to a history but also to a very specific economic and social context, that of a nation. this committee is therefore a new attempt by the eurocrats to interfere and thus weaken the sovereignty of the member states, in contempt of the peoples and nations of europe.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was consulted on the decision establishing the social protection committee, which led to this report. i welcome the approval of this decision by parliament. considers it important to strengthen cooperation in the field of social protection and to facilitate the exchange of good practice between member states and with the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to set up a social protection committee with an advisory role. the main function of the committee will be to monitor the development of national social protection policies and to encourage the sharing of experience and good practice between member states and with the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because this advisory committee is responsible for monitoring the modernisation of social protection systems in the member states. it is not very dangerous a priori, but the aim seems to be to give a social guarantee to the ultra-liberal policy of the european union, which i do not want to do.
in writing. - i vote against. we are always against the european union's desire to put the member states under control. we are committed to the sovereignty of the states and believe that each state should be able, alone and independently, to pursue the policy it considers best. in this report, the european commission is considering the creation of a further committee whose task will be to intervene in the affairs of the member states with the aim of monitoring their policies. this is unacceptable for sovereignists.
in writing. - i voted against this decision. the purpose of the committee is to interfere in the affairs of the member states by monitoring the way they manage their social protection policies and systems and reporting to the european commission. it is an infringement of the right of member states to legislate and act.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a council decision aims to establish a social protection committee with an advisory role. the aim of this committee is to promote cooperation on social protection policies between the member states and with the commission in the context of the european semester. the aim is therefore to make social protection even more subject to the objectives of austerity. the committee is invited to cooperate with the social partners and to keep parliament informed of its work, but of course without any obligation on its part. the report validates the proposal by amending it in the margin. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ considering that this is an additional advisory committee composed of members chosen by co-option, whose effectiveness is uncertain but whose operation is costly, and whose objective seems to be to interfere with the prerogatives of the states, i voted no.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is asked for its opinion following the council's decision to set up the social protection committee, an advisory body to both the council and the commission. in 2013, the european council affirmed the need to strengthen the social dimension of economic and monetary union. the aim of this committee is to promote cooperation on social protection policies between the member states and with the commission. it will have the task of monitoring, exchanging information, preparing reports and delivering opinions on social protection. this is the usual hypocrisy of the european union. while in greece the poverty rate at the 2009 threshold (60% of median income in 2009) jumped to 44.3%, the rate of material deprivation increased from 11% in 2009 to 20.3% in 2013, and the inability to make ends meet reached 40% in 2013 - all as a result of the policies imposed by the troika - the eu decides to have a puppet committee without real power, whose only role will be to divert attention from the reality of the social problems generated by european economic policies. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which modernises the governance of the social protection committee. the role of the committee is to promote cooperation on social protection policies between the member states, with the commission and in liaison with the social partners, while respecting the competences of the member states (the financing of social protection is the responsibility of the states).
in writing. ‒ the european union decides to extend its grip on the social protection policies of the member states. this interference and this new attack on the sovereignty of the nations is obviously unacceptable. each people must be able to decide democratically for itself what it wants as social protection. i shall vote against it without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ at a time when the health of european citizens is at the heart of the union's economic and social policies, parliament adopted yesterday the amendments proposed by the council to the decision establishing the social protection committee. two new points were added: ensuring health protection for all, and taking better account of socioeconomic policies and their implications for other areas. i voted in favour of the amendments to that decision.
in writing. ‒ this social protection committee, composed of a group of high-level civil servants, has an advisory role to the epsco council, which brings together all the ministers for employment and social protection. the repeal of the previous decision aims to strengthen the objectives of cooperation between member states by ensuring a binding monitoring of the social situation and the reforms undertaken, and meets the union's objective of modernising social protection systems. the committee's role is mainly to influence the european semester procedure through more meaningful social indicators and to intervene in the evaluation mechanisms by preparing reports and opinions. this decision, whatever the outcome of the european parliament's vote, will be adopted by the council independently of the european parliament's opinion. this is yet another committee of experts which will intervene a little more in the affairs of the member states in order to monitor and manage their social protection policies. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this draft council decision aims to establish the employment committee. the committee has an advisory role and is intended to advise the ministers for employment and social protection on the objectives of the european employment semester. it carries out work on multilateral monitoring to monitor the progress made by member states in implementing the reforms recommended in the country-specific recommendations. it is therefore just another committee that interferes in the affairs of the member states by monitoring the way they manage their social protection policies and reporting back to the commission. moreover, the council decision does not require the opinion of the european parliament to adopt this draft. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the committee is an assembly of 'senior civil servants' whose role is advisory to the epsco council (which brings together all the ministers for employment and social protection). the committee mainly contributes to the development of the rpps (country recommendations) and to the design of the objectives of the european employment semester. as a coordinating instrument, it is supposed to monitor the development of employment policies in the member states by publishing reports and opinions. i think it is just another committee that interferes in the affairs of the member states by monitoring the way in which they manage their employment policies. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the aim of the committee on employment (which will be advisory) is to achieve the objective stated in the treaty on the functioning of the european union of promoting coordination of employment policies 'in order to promote a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets able to react rapidly to economic developments'. it will, among other things, monitor employment trends in the member states and the union, etc. this is particularly puzzling when we know the level of unemployment in the countries of the union... instead of creating inconsistent committees, which are empty shells, the union would do better to stop the deadly austerity policies, even though the research services of the major international institutions now admit their ineffectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this committee, which is responsible for monitoring the member states' employment policies, which is unacceptable. i also renew my reservations about the european employment semester, for which this committee is responsible for drawing up the objectives.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the biggest contributor to unemployment through its ultra-austerity policy. however, it has no problem spending public money when it comes to setting up an employment advisory committee. this follows the long list of bodies, including the social protection committee, the economic and financial committee, the economic policy committee, the education committee and the administrative board of the european public services network. these committees are a waste of public money for technocrats who are completely out of touch with reality, particularly with employment. that is why i voted against the creation of this new institution and will ask for the costs of running these institutions to be disclosed in the interests of transparency for the citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was consulted on the introduction of new prerogatives for the employment committee. in the context of the economic and financial crisis, we are faced with sluggish growth and very high unemployment throughout europe. we must do everything in our power to create jobs. this of course requires stronger coordination in social matters. i therefore welcome the role of the employment committee, whose task is to monitor the development of employment policies in the member states. i therefore voted in favour of this decision.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which, once again, validates the council's decision to create another expensive and useless institution. the council wants to set up an employment committee whose main role will be to draft non-binding reports and opinions by senior officials on the employment policies of the member states. in addition to the fact that france already has various institutions auditing its various public policies (such as the court of auditors), the european union does not have to create an empty shell, financed by the taxes of our fellow citizens, to judge areas of public action that remain the competence of the member states.
in writing. faced with the challenges of globalisation, member states need a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and flexible labour markets more than ever. however, to be effective in the face of the global economic and financial crisis, the coordinated employment strategy must be consistent with macroeconomic policies and the process of economic reform at european level. the coordination of employment and labour market policies should therefore be supported through the advisory committee on employment.
in writing. i voted against this report on the council decision establishing the employment committee. the multitude of committees, whose usefulness and legitimacy can be questioned, only strengthens supranational institutions, while adding to their illegitimacy. once again, the european union is seeking to transfer the centres of decision-making and to consolidate structures that are widely contested by citizens in all member states.
in writing. ‒ this committee will bring together senior civil servants who will have an advisory role to the epsco council (employment, political, social, health and consumers). it will, in particular, monitor developments in employment policies in the member states through its reports and opinions. it will also serve to introduce a social dimension in the macroeconomic negotiations between the members of the union, in particular when defining the objectives of the european semester. nevertheless, this vote is biased to say the least, since, whatever the opinion of the european parliament, this council decision will be applied and implemented. we are therefore witnessing a real denial of democracy, giving power to unelected technocrats rather than to the representatives of the people. that is why i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was consulted on the decision establishing the employment committee, which led to this report. i welcome the parliament's approval of the council decision, which is in the direction of taking better account of the objective of a high level of employment in all union policies. the tasks entrusted to this committee seem to me relevant, particularly as regards the exchange of information and experience between member states to improve the employment situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to set up an employment advisory committee to promote better coordination of national employment and labour market policies. the main functions of the committee will be to monitor developments in employment policies in the member states, to participate in the european macroeconomic dialogue and to promote the exchange of information and experience.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because this advisory committee is responsible for monitoring the development of employment policies in the member states. it is not very dangerous a priori, but the aim seems to be to give a social guarantee to the ultra-liberal policy of the union, which i do not want to do.
in writing. - i voted against that decision. here again, the purpose of this committee is to interfere in the affairs of the member states by monitoring the way they manage their employment policies and reporting to the european commission. it is an infringement of the right of member states to legislate and act.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a council decision aims to establish an advisory committee on employment, in accordance with article 5 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). these provisions therefore derive from the treaty of lisbon, which i opposed. they provide for the establishment of an employment committee with an advisory role to contribute to the coherent and complementary implementation of the european employment strategies, macroeconomic policies and the economic reform process. the commission will be assisting in the process of adopting the broad economic policy guidelines and will be taking part in the macroeconomic dialogue at union level, obviously in the context of the european semester. so, austerity is widespread. the parliament's report validates the council's proposal. i vote against
in writing. ‒ considering that this is an additional advisory committee composed of members chosen by co-option, whose effectiveness is uncertain but whose operation is costly, and whose objective seems to be to interfere with the prerogatives of the states, i voted no.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to set up the employment committee (which will be advisory in nature) to fulfil the objective set out in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, namely to promote the coordination of employment policies in order to promote a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets able to react rapidly to economic developments. it will, among other things, monitor employment trends in the member states and the union, etc. this is particularly shocking when one considers the level of unemployment in the countries of the european union ... instead of creating inconsistent committees, the eu would do better to stop the deadly austerity policies, even as the research services of the major international institutions now admit their ineffectiveness. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which gives new tasks to the employment committee. the committee was set up in 2010 to monitor the employment situation across the union. it shall promote the coordination of employment and labour market policies, while respecting the competences of the member states. it works closely with the social partners.
in writing. ‒ the european union decides to extend its grip on the employment policies of the member states. this interference and this new attack on the sovereignty of the nations is obviously unacceptable. each people must be able to decide democratically for itself what it considers to be the most relevant employment policy. i shall vote against it without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ today, the new juncker commission has made employment one of its priorities and is trying to promote employment policy through other european policies. in this context, i voted in favour of the amendments repealing the decision establishing the employment committee.
in writing. ‒ the committee is an assembly of senior civil servants with an advisory role to the epsco council (which brings together all the ministers for employment and social protection). the adoption of a new decision is expected to help meet the objectives of the european union and to make the social dimension more effective in the macroeconomic dialogue. the committee mainly contributes to the development of the rpps (country recommendations) and to the design of the objectives of the european employment semester. as a coordinating instrument, it will continue to monitor and follow up the development of employment policies in the member states by publishing reports and opinions to the commission. irrespective of the opinion of the european parliament, this council decision will be adopted. it is a further attempt to interfere a little more in the affairs of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this regulation amendment provides for the transfer of unused commitment appropriations in 2014. over 300 programmes, or 47% of all operational programmes, are covered by these appropriations. in addition, the regulation makes €172 million available to the asylum, migration and integration fund, which promotes legal immigration within the european union. this change is likely to exacerbate the problems of late payment. but we still have 24 billion unpaid bills (11 billion in 2011). however, this amendment is purely technical and i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to carry over to 2015 21 billion of appropriations not used in 2014 due to the late adoption of regulations and programmes for certain european funds. i am pleased to see that the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and fisheries are included in the budget lines. however, the recommendation also provides for €172 million to be made available for the asylum, migration and integration fund, which, as its name suggests, aims to facilitate legal immigration. this recommendation by the european parliament is completely out of touch with reality: in a damning 113-page report published in february 2015, french experts from the court of auditors estimate the cost of asylum at more than €2 billion per year for our national community alone. the cost of those who arrive is added to that of those who do not leave: only 1% of the unemployed actually leave french territory. i therefore could not vote in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the multiannual financial framework aims to transfer to subsequent years €21 billion in commitment appropriations not used in 2014, equivalent to 15% of the 2014 budget! if this is a purely technical revision, however, it should be noted that €172 million will be made available to the asylum, migration and integration fund and to promote legal immigration to the eu, a highly controversial policy. it also reveals serious and even scandalous elements such as the stock of unpaid debts which grows year by year, thus showing a totally sclerotic management. the amount reached 24.7 billion in 2014 compared to 11 billion in 2011. and we're still waiting for a plan to clear it. in the meantime, the costs are borne by the local authorities. this absurd system justifies for some a new federal leap which is nothing but a leap into the void and would be an intolerable attack on the sovereignty of the states. the only answer to this appalling management is to leave the member states full sovereignty over their budgets and the allocation of investments. i therefore abstained, taking into account the purely technical aspect of the text.
in writing. ‒ the proposed amendments are intended to allow the carry-over to 2015 of the appropriations not used in 2014, i.e. eur 21 billion, corresponding to 15% of the 2014 budget, due to the late adoption of the regulations and programmes concerning certain european funds. i can only regret that €172 million is being made available to the asylum, migration and integration fund to promote legal immigration to the european union, which is politically questionable and economically disastrous, especially for france, as the court of auditors recently pointed out. however, i abstained on this text because of the accumulating delays in payments which risk, on the one hand, worsening and, on the other hand, endangering programmes which help sectors of the french economy in danger, such as fisheries or the eafrd.
in writing. ‒ article 19 of the mff allows for an amendment to transfer eur 21 billion of commitment appropriations from 2014 to 2015 due to the delay in adopting operational programmes for european funds. this amendment raises the question of the budgetary sincerity of the european union, since when the last mff was adopted, everyone knew that it would not be respected. in addition, the one-year delay in commitment appropriations will have the impact of worsening the payment crisis, which is already estimated at eur 24 billion by the end of 2014. because i no longer support the small budgetary arrangements between the council and the european parliament, i abstained on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishes the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. given the late adoption of the 2014-2020 cohesion policy regulations, which prevented the adoption of the operational programmes, the regulation needs to be revised accordingly. the programmes concerned are part of the european structural and investment funds. we need these operational programmes to be set in motion quickly and to be implemented by the end of the year. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report which amends regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 to allow the transfer of unused commitment appropriations in 2014. this is certainly an important measure, since it concerns at least 21 billion euros, or 15% of the 2014 budget. however, i am concerned that the need for such a measure is apparent as a result of a growing stock of unpaid bills: 24 billion euros of unpaid bills in 2014 compared to 11 billion in 2011. i would also like to emphasize my total opposition to the fact that the budget provides for eur 172 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund: everyone knows that this fund allows the financing of legal immigration, even though the eu is the world's largest source of migration; more than 1.5 million migrants are registered each year, and more than 128,725 irregular arrivals were registered in the third quarter of 2014, a year that saw the flow of illegal immigration jump 170% compared to 2013. it is expected to jump again in 2015, with the first two months showing an increase of more than 200% compared to 2014!
in writing. the delay in adopting the multiannual financial framework (mff), caused by difficult negotiations between member states, should not penalise the beneficiaries of european funds. i support this proposal to amend the mff regulation because the majority of the unused appropriations in 2014 would be carried over to 2015, particularly in relation to cohesion policy. this is the guarantee of equal treatment with programmes already adopted in 2014 or postponed. this will allow the start of the new programming period to be completed without slowing down the pace of investment for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the amendment of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. caution should be exercised in this respect. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: however, other major elements could be dealt with in a secondary way. the european union, which is heavily indebted, has to pay its accumulated bills. it is therefore necessary to adopt a forward-looking and responsible attitude to ensure that the consequences of these arrears are not borne by the citizens of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues jan olbrycht and isabelle thomas amending the regulation establishing the european multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the purpose of the vote was to validate a transfer to subsequent years of the commitment appropriations not used in 2014 for certain european funds (structural funds, cohesion funds, eafrd and emff in particular). many european projects could not be financed in 2014 due to the delay in adopting the multiannual financial framework, making this transfer of funds (almost eur 16,5 billion for 2015) necessary in order to strengthen the financing capacity for the following years. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to transfer to later years the european commitment appropriations not used in 2014 due to the late adoption of certain european programmes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the 21 billion euro of commitment appropriations not used in 2014 are to be carried over to 2015 in order to be able to settle the arrears, which would be unreasonable to prevent. the enormity of this deferral, however, shows how bad a payer the union is.
in writing. - abstention from voting. the objective of this report is to amend regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 in order to allow for the carry-over of unused commitment appropriations to subsequent years. which seems like a good thing. but €172 million is earmarked for the asylum, migration and integration fund, which will undoubtedly encourage immigration to european countries. various reports, including the court of auditors' report for france, have highlighted the problems of the european union countries in managing migration and the consequences of this, so the desire to transfer such an amount to this sector seems illogical. another important point is the cost of unpaid invoices, which amounts to 24 billion euros, an amount that has doubled since 2011. this has of course serious consequences for the management of local and regional authorities. the european commission's intention to solve this problem by introducing a european tax is unacceptable because it will put the sovereignty of the member states in question even more.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote on the carry-over to 2015 of 21 billion of appropriations not used in 2014 due to the late adoption of regulations and programmes concerning certain european funds. although the problem of late payments is likely to worsen, funds from which france benefits, such as the eafrd or fisheries, are also included in the budget lines in question. it is therefore more appropriate to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses a major amendment to the 2013 regulation setting the eu's multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. in principle, this framework can be revised if some programmes could not be launched as early as 2014. rather than losing all the appropriations earmarked for 2014 for these programmes, this amendment allows them to be carried over, thus raising the expenditure ceilings for subsequent years. this only marginally corrects the known shortcomings of this multiannual financial framework marked by austerity. and this is yet another example of the unpredictability of european budget management. the commission's stringent conditionality meant that 47% of eu programmes, or 300 programmes, could not be adopted by the end of 2014. this represents 11 billion unused appropriations for the structural funds alone. to avoid these funds being lost, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ although opposed to the transfer of funds to the 'asylum, migration and integration' policy, it seems that other budget lines retain an interest. therefore, i preferred to abstain.
in writing. the revision of the multiannual financial framework is intended to transfer to subsequent years €21 billion in commitment appropriations not used in 2014, equivalent to 15% of the 2014 budget! if this is a purely technical revision, however, it should be noted that €172 million will be made available to the asylum, migration and integration fund and to promote legal immigration to the eu, a highly controversial policy. it also reveals elements of serious and even scandalous funds, such as the stock of unpaid debts, which grows year by year, thus showing a totally sclerotic management. the amount reached 24.7 billion in 2014 compared to 11 billion in 2011. and we're still waiting for a plan to clear it. in the meantime, the costs are borne by the local authorities. this absurd system justifies for some a new federal leap which is nothing but a leap into the void and would be an intolerable expectation of the sovereignty of the states. the only answer to this appalling management is to leave the member states full sovereignty over their budgets and the allocation of investments. i abstained on the merely technical aspect of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which provides for a simple transfer to subsequent years of commitment appropriations not used in 2014. the aim is to avoid losing and to implement rapidly the appropriations for the structural and investment funds, which represent the most important investment policy of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal to amend the multiannual financial framework following the late adoption of certain operational programmes under cohesion policy. this amendment is necessary in order not to lose the unused appropriations from 2014 and to transfer them to the following budgetary years.
in writing. ‒ these carryovers concern a wide range of measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. some would be quite acceptable, while others would merit fierce opposition. in these circumstances, i cannot accept or reject the text as a whole and therefore prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ following the approval of the council of the european union, parliament in turn gave its opinion on the amendment of the multiannual financial framework concerning the transfer of cohesion policy funds from 2014 to 2015-2017. the main guidelines of cohesion policy were not adopted in time and were not sustainable. i voted in favour of these changes, which will help to finance 300 national programmes that were launched too late to qualify for eu funding in 2014. this would represent the sum of eur 21,1 billion of unused commitment appropriations in 2014 and which will be carried over to 2015-2017.
in writing. ‒ this amendment to the regulation is only a technical carry-over to 2015 of the appropriations not used in 2014 due to the late adoption of regulations and programmes concerning certain european funds. the amendment to the regulation on the structural funds for asylum and immigration policies is mainly concerned with this, which is why i should have opposed this text. but the funds allocated to the eafrd and to fisheries have been cleverly combined with it to force us not to oppose the adoption of the text. my final position is abstention.
in writing. ‒ on the eve of the commemoration of the armenian genocide, this motion for a resolution pays tribute to the victims of the genocide, over one and a half million of whom were massacred. it calls on turkey to respect and fully implement the obligations it has assumed for the protection of cultural heritage and, in particular, to carry out in good faith a comprehensive inventory of the armenian and other cultural heritage destroyed or damaged over the last century on its territory. in addition, she congratulates and adds the words of the holy father pope francis who honors the memory of the armenians in a spirit of peace and reconciliation. i therefore voted in favour of this recognition of the armenian genocide.
in writing. - in favour of recognition of the terrible genocide suffered by the armenians as the ottoman empire collapsed, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ considering that the recognition of the armenian genocide is a necessity, i voted for this text. the resolution adopted by the european parliament takes advantage of the centenary of the armenian massacre to recognize it as a genocide. already recognised as genocide by france, the resolution clearly calls into question the role of the ottoman authorities at the time. even if the resolution calls on turkey to recognise the armenian genocide in order to open the door to reconciliation with armenia, the reaction of the current turkish president, who rejects the genocidal character, shows how foolish a goal turkey's accession to the european union is, only to be changed by the submission of the european authorities to american wishes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide. i can only express my solidarity with the people who were massacred by the ottoman regime. we can only regret the negative attitude of the turkish authorities on this matter. they still refuse to consider that the recognition of the armenian genocide is part of the copenhagen criteria, which impose conditions on the countries applying for membership of the european union. as the pope recently pointed out, this is the first genocide of the 20th century. this massacre was carried out mainly for religious reasons. a century later, christians in the near and middle east are being persecuted. let us not forget and stand in solidarity with the christians of the east.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this resolution, i wish to pay tribute to the 1.2 million armenians who were massacred and deported in 1915 by the ottoman empire. this genocide is still an open wound for the armenian people, a people who have always defended the recognition of this genocide with humility. that is why turkey must embark on the path of recognition of the armenian genocide, in particular by opening up its archives. i would also like to welcome the remarks of pope francis which honour the memory of the armenians and advance the cause of recognition. in order to turn words into action and force erdoğan to recognize the genocide and to stop the persecution of christian minorities, especially the chaldeans, the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union should be suspended immediately.
in writing. ‒ 100 years ago, the armenian people were victims of a terrible genocide perpetrated in the ottoman empire. it is very important to remember this event that dramatically affected the minds. the turkish leadership must realize that it is essential to recognize this genocide as such. it is a necessary step towards cooperation between turkey and armenia, but also with the european union. the european parliament, in this resolution, has decided to pay tribute to the memory of the victims and to reaffirm the recognition of the armenian genocide. mr erdoğan has seen fit to denigrate this text, once again pointing out the difficulties of negotiating with it. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the armenian genocide is a resolutely european issue, considering the irreversible effects of this genocide on the many descendants of armenians who have taken refuge in the union. i have therefore fought for europe to join these commemorations in a spirit of openness and solidarity. the centenary of such a tragic event demands a dignified attitude, which all members involved in the negotiations have followed. this joint resolution is a step towards appeasement and a step towards full recognition of the armenian genocide. i would have liked the spirit of this text to be more commemorative, more focused on the links between armenian and turkish civil societies, and less oriented towards armenian-turkish diplomatic relations. i also personally think that we cannot be satisfied with the condolences of mr erdoğan and mr davutoglu to the victims of this genocide, because they were not at all like apologies but more like a political maneuver. i would not have made specific reference to these statements in a solemn context of commemorations. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i can only join in the tribute paid to the victims of the armenian genocide, whose massacre was planned by a dying ottoman empire. one million armenians, including women and children, were murdered between 1915 and 1916. following his holiness pope francis, we must tell the armenian people that we remember; we remember, not to make ourselves judges of history, but because keeping the memory of the past, of what we were and what we are is necessary to build the future. we must remember, as bernard of chartres said in the 12th century, that we are like dwarfs sitting on the shoulders of giants. if we see more and more distant things than they do, it's because we're raised by them. we're no better than our ancestors, but we have to embrace their history to rise above it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. this resolution is in its spirit close to the resolution tabled by the patriotic members of parliament on 29 january last. in the spirit of reconciliation and in honour of the victims of this genocide, we call on the turkish government to acknowledge the crimes committed by the ottoman empire against the armenian population in 1915. i would remind you that the continuation of turkey's accession process to the european union is incompatible with the union's alleged values, since this country:- does not formally acknowledge its responsibility for multiple genocides (against the armenians, the assyro-chaldeans and the greeks);- occupies part of the territory of a european country (northern cyprus);- provides aid to islamist groups in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ the crimes committed by turkey against civilians in the ottoman empire during the first world war are an undeniable reality. the armenians in the first place, but also the assyro-chaldeans and the pontic greeks suffered mass massacres whose scale is denied by successive turkish governments. the recognition of these crimes against christian populations is necessary for europe to build lasting relations with turkey, even though turkey has no place in the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide. in this resolution, the european parliament wanted to recall that without truth and memory, reconciliation is impossible. in addition to commemorating the innocent victims who perished, it serves as a reminder to the world that many communities are still persecuted today because of their origin or religion. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide, this resolution pays tribute to the memory of the victims and calls on the turkish authorities to recognise the genocide in order to allow for a lasting reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples. i'm very happy about the adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling on turkey to recognise the armenian genocide, without preconditions, in order to lay the foundations for a genuine reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples. the year 2015 marks the centenary of the armenian genocide. on this occasion and through this resolution, the european parliament wished to pay tribute to the memory of the 1.5 million armenian victims who lost their lives in the ottoman empire a century ago. in voting this resolution, i also wished to welcome the message of pope francis of 12 april 2015, in which he 'commemorated the centenary of the armenian genocide in a spirit of peace and reconciliation'. finally, in the context of this resolution, we propose the establishment of an international day of commemoration of the genocide, which should make it possible to reaffirm every year the right of all peoples and nations of the world to peace and dignity.
in writing. ‒ national front mps voted in favour of the resolution on the recognition of the armenian genocide, although the text shows a certain naivete when one welcomes the statements of recep tayyip erdoğan, president of the republic of turkey, and ahmet davutoğlu, prime minister of the republic of turkey, who last year sent their condolences to the ottoman armenians and acknowledged the atrocities committed against them. the reactions of erdoğan and davutoğlu to pope francis' recent statements on the armenian genocide are of a rare violence, with davutoğlu saying that the pope has joined a "conspiracy of an evil front". the turkish president, for his part, had already announced in advance that he would not attach any importance to the european parliament's resolution. since the recognition of the armenian genocide is essential, in particular, for the improvement of relations between turkey and armenia, and since good neighbourly relations are part of the accession criteria, the european union must incorporate this recognition as a sine qua non condition for the continuation of the accession process.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it recognizes the reality of the armenian genocide, which occurred a hundred years ago. it also has the merit of congratulating the pope for his remarks which honour the memory of the armenians in a spirit of peace and reconciliation.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour of the recognition of the armenian genocide. the fact that it is essential to pay tribute to the armenian victims of this massacre should not only be a factor in this, but should also encourage the turkish authorities to make an effort to question those responsible for this massacre and to recognize this genocide. the recent position of the holy father on this subject is a great step forward, since it is taken in a spirit of peace and to promote the reconciliation of peoples.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin of course voted for this motion for a resolution. the european parliament is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the resolution recognises that the tragic events which took place in the ottoman empire from 1915 to 1917 against the armenian population constitute genocide as defined by the 1948 convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide. the resolution pays tribute to the victims. it called on the turkish government to continue its efforts to achieve recognition of the armenian genocide in order to pave the way for genuine reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ considering the armenian genocide as one of the most heinous crimes of the 21st century, too long forgotten, and being in favour of the recognition of this genocide, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the recognition of the armenian genocide of 1915 is a fact that only turkey still dares to deny today. europe, which is still actively negotiating turkey's accession, should be concerned about mr erdoğan's scathing response to the pope's recent remarks and to this european parliament resolution, saying that he would ignore them. more than ever, the turkish government treats with contempt or sanction any reference to this genocide, which is estimated to have killed nearly 1.5 million people and was the first of a series of tragic events in the 20th century.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted by the european parliament takes advantage of the centenary of the armenian massacre to recognise it as a 'genocide'. the resolution, which has already been recognised as such by france, clearly calls into question the role of the ottoman authorities at the time. even if the resolution calls on turkey to recognize the armenian genocide in order to open the door to reconciliation with armenia, the reaction of the current turkish president, who refuses to recognize the genocidal character, shows how foolish a goal turkey's accession to the european union is, motivated only by the submission of the european authorities to american wishes. i therefore voted in favour of this text, because i consider it necessary to recognise the armenian genocide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide in the ottoman empire. the text pays tribute to the one and a half million armenian victims who lost their lives between 1915 and 1917. it welcomed the statements of the highest turkish authorities expressing their condolences to the ottoman armenians and stressed that turkey and armenia had been engaged since 2009 in a process of normalising their diplomatic relations. finally, he called for a historic reconciliation between the turkish and armenian peoples.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which recognises the genocide against the armenian population which took place during the first world war in the ottoman empire and pays tribute to the victims. the resolution also urges the turkish government to officially recognise the genocide in order to allow for genuine reconciliation between the peoples.
in writing. ‒ one hundred years after the events, it is high time to recognize what happened and to give a proper name to the atrocious drama experienced by the armenian people. that is why i support this amendment to recognise the armenian genocide and hope that all nations which have not yet done so will follow this path, particularly those which would have the ambition to join the european union.
in writing. ‒ we wanted to adopt a resolution to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. i voted in favour of this text, which also allows a diplomatic message to be sent to turkey.
in writing. - on the eve of the commemorative ceremonies, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the centenary of the armenian genocide, which i fully support. after world war ii, the nations of europe united in the quest for peace. it is in this spirit of peace and international cooperation that we once again encourage armenia and turkey to reconcile. more generally, we condemn all forms of genocide and propose the creation of an international day of commemoration of genocides. the armenian genocide has been recognised by the european parliament since 1987. by adopting this resolution, we pay tribute to the one and a half million armenians who died in the ottoman empire between 1915 and 1917. this atrocity cannot remain a mere memory on the eve of the centenary. the european parliament will therefore take part in the commemoration of the centenary of the armenian genocide in armenia on 24 april. we also welcome the recent positions taken by turkey. we now encourage it to fully recognise the armenian genocide and to fulfil its obligations regarding the protection of armenian heritage. today, the atrocities that have struck our world must be constantly reminded so that future generations are fully aware of them.
in writing. ‒ i am naturally in favour of the adoption of this text for natural reasons in a general international context which is dramatic for christians. the recognition of the armenian genocide by the turkish authorities, who are now engaged in a real effort to destabilise syria, where christians are dying every day from the bullets and knives of the terrorists they protect, is in my view a duty for every frenchman who respects himself. we must take this opportunity to put pressure on the turkish authorities to recognize the first genocide of the 20th century, a genocide which is being perpetuated today by the same methods and with the same results. the persecution, exodus and exile of christians from this region is now reaching horrifying and dramatic proportions. i would like to welcome the statement of the pope who courageously called on the turkish authorities to recognise the armenian genocide.
in writing. ‒ although the proposal provides for the commemoration of the genocide of roma during the second world war, who, in proportion to their number, were the first victims of nazi policies, the proposal is vague as regards the definition of rom. the term covers all communities of travellers, including "national" ones. moreover, this issue seems to be the pretext for ever greater interference by the commission in the social policy of the member states. it gives the commission the right to monitor, assess and remedy any systemic violations of the fight against 'anti-gypsyism' that it identifies as being part of the member states' policies. furthermore, the issue of roma integration seems more complex than it is developed in this proposal, which never mentions the attitude of the communities themselves. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i refused to support this resolution which, under the pretext of fighting discrimination, makes a dangerous amalgamation by claiming that the term "roma" includes all communities of travellers, including the manchus, gypsies, and other sinti, even when they have been settled and integrated for a long time.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. the resolution calls for more efforts to end discrimination against roma and for 2 august to be recognised as a day of remembrance of the roma holocaust during the second world war. however, this text justifies the practice of positive discrimination specifically for roma. this should not, however, lead to the problems of roma integration being overlooked. public policies for roma integration are proof of this: their effectiveness is close to zero. the €50 billion put on the table between 2007 and 2013 has, in most cases, been very little used, showing the lack of interest of national authorities like romania in their sustainable integration.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the occasion of the international roma day. i regret his approximations and his lack of precision, especially semantic, in his statement of reasons. thus, in its recital b, the text includes 'roms' as a 'generic term designating several related groups in europe, sedentary or otherwise, who are not members of the roma community'. while this word corresponds, in the strict sense, to a population present, in particular, in central and eastern europe, it is not the case that the term "european" is used in the sense of a european country. i cannot support such a 'victimizing' resolution which carefully fails to challenge the attitude of the communities concerned. born.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposal combines the fight against 'anti-gypsyism' with the recognition of a day specifically dedicated to the genocide of the roma community during the second world war. furthermore, the text equates the entire communities of the travellers with the term "rom". they'll like it. moreover, by never holding the roma community responsible for its refusal to integrate into the countries in which it resides, this motion for a resolution is out of touch with reality and is full of the most excessive dogmatism. that is why i abstained on this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this motion for a resolution which, under the pretext of recognising genocide, interferes with the legislative and criminal processes of the member states and threatens to sanction sovereign nations if they do not submit to the views of the european union on this issue, which, as a historical fact, is a matter for debate among historians. moreover, while there is no question of calling into question the genocide of the roma during the second world war, the motion for a resolution in question was too vague: while it recognises the diversity of the people covered by the term 'roma', the text is intended to give a uniform and unilateral interpretation of these tragic events. it is therefore impossible to claim to establish a 'european day of remembrance for the victims of the roma genocide' even if it is accepted that this term covers different communities.
in writing. as the fight against discrimination has always been at the heart of my political struggle, i wanted to support this text. as regards the roma population, the european union has a real role to play in combating anti-gypsyism, which is still present in too many member states. the resolution thus seeks to recognise the genocide of the roma during the second world war by proclaiming a 'european day of remembrance of the genocide of the roma'. the memory work is important to change the mindsets about this ethnic minority. in this resolution, i was particularly attentive to the double discrimination experienced by roma women, whose difficulties in finding employment are tenfold.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 15 april, parliament voted in favour of the resolution calling for eu recognition of the roma genocide during the second world war and the establishment of a commemoration day on 2 august. this tragedy, which claimed more than 500,000 lives, led to the extermination of nearly 80% of the roma population. the resolution considers that the roma genocide is still unrecognised and regrets that it is not taught in schools. it considers that this official recognition is essential to combat anti-gypsyism and all forms of discrimination against the roma population. therefore, member states are encouraged to implement the equal treatment directive, to take better account of the situation of women and children in national roma integration strategies and to condemn hate speech more strongly. let's not get the debate wrong. it is not a question of denouncing the actions or inactions of the member states but of recognising a historical fact and paying tribute to the victims of the atrocities committed during the second world war. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this motion for a resolution on the establishment of an international roma day and the commemoration of the genocide of the roma during the second world war. the proposal puts the roma people first and omits all other communities of nomads who suffered nazi crimes, including so-called national communities such as the gypsies and gypsies. this kind of confusion is intolerable in a motion for a resolution. finally, this proposal defends a new form of interference by the commission since it serves as a pretext for intervening in the social policy of the member states by arrogating to itself the right to assess and remedy the shortcomings in the fight against anti-gypsyism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which officially recognises the historical fact of the genocide of the roma during the second world war and calls for the creation of a european day of remembrance for this genocide. the recognition of genocide and war crimes is essential for peace, reconciliation and democracy in europe. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution calling for the recognition and commemoration of the genocide of the roma during the second world war. the recognition of this genocide, which claimed more than 500,000 lives, and the establishment of a european day of remembrance is an important symbolic step in the fight against anti-gypsyism and contributes to a better understanding of the history of the roma in europe.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because this resolution, although full of good intentions, is poorly drafted and lacks nuance. in particular, it confuses "roma" and "travellers", which are two different categories of people. that said, i do of course condemn the genocide of the roma by the nazis.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin abstained on this motion for a resolution. indeed, many concepts are mixed here: it is explicitly stated that the term rom includes all communities of travellers, including national ones. discrimination is mixed in without the attitude of the communities ever being questioned, and the idea of creating a day of remembrance of the genocide of the roma during the second world war is added. this motion is too "squishy" to be voted on anyway.
in writing. ‒ the genocide of the roma by the nazis and their allies during the second world war is still largely unknown to many schoolchildren or citizens. in addition to the international day of remembrance of the victims of the holocaust (jews, roma, communists, gays, etc.), the resolution proposes the creation of a european day of remembrance of the roma genocide on 2 august, which would make it possible to highlight this too often forgotten part of the tragic history of our continent. in the current context of rising racism, the text is a timely reminder of the duties of the member states to enforce existing anti-racism legislation. it is regrettable that the resolution does not denounce the governments themselves who are contributing to the rise of racism against the roma through discriminatory statements or policies. we have had good examples of this in eastern europe and even in france with mr sarkozy and then mr valls, who declared that the roma were incapable of integration. i am voting in favour of this text, hoping that it will not remain at the stage of good resolutions, but will be followed by a real fight against discrimination against these populations.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution remains vague and creates an amalgamation between several communities. once again, the european union is being coercive, proposing sanctions if states do not comply. the member abstained.
in writing. ‒ some zealous meps, particularly those on the far left, want to blame european citizens again, who they suspect of being racist in their reaction to the mass presence of roma. as the french prime minister, manuel valls, has just said, the roma have no vocation to remain in france and must return to their countries, mainly bulgaria and romania. the european union has made it possible, with the opening of its borders, for people whose way of life has nothing to do with european culture to come here, and who most often live off the exploitation of women, children and the elderly through mafia networks of begging, illegal street gambling and various forms of trafficking. it is a fraud to make europeans responsible for the rejection of populations who continually defy the laws of the host countries and embody the rejection of the other by marginalization and self-enclosure. however, in recognition of the plight of the roma during the second world war, another element of this resolution, the compromise position is abstention.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for more efforts to end discrimination against roma and for the recognition of 2 august as a day of remembrance of the roma holocaust during the second world war. however, this text justifies the practice of positive discrimination specifically targeted at roma. this should not, however, lead to the problems of roma integration being overlooked. public policies for roma integration are proof of this: their effectiveness is close to zero. the €50 billion put on the table between 2007 and 2013 has, in most cases, been very little used, showing the lack of interest of national authorities, especially romanian ones, in their sustainable integration. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution which recalls that the genocide of the roma during the second world war resulted in the deaths of more than 500 000 people, or more than 80% of the roma population. the resolution solemnly recognizes this genocide and calls on the member states to officially recognize it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes the creation of a european day of remembrance for the genocide of the roma during the second world war. i think it is important to remember this genocide perpetrated by the nazis, which is too little known to european citizens. the resolution also calls on the member states to take action to combat racism in the context of the current rise in racism and extremism in europe.
in writing. ‒ the resolution certainly comes from good feelings. however, recognition of the genocide of the roma during the second world war cannot be accompanied by a definition of a roma people which would include french citizens. france, one and indivisible, cannot accept that it be forced to recognize ethnic minorities, this concept being contrary to the very notion of the french republic. that's why i'm not going.
in writing. ‒ the genocide of roma during the second world war is still little recognised and commemorated in europe. on the occasion of international roma day on 8 april, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling for the recognition and commemoration of the genocide of the roma on 2 august, which killed more than 500 000 people, or 80% of the roma population that was exterminated. i voted in favour of this text for that reason.
in writing. ‒ the roma, who number between 10 and 12 million in europe, are the largest minority in our continent. it is very worrying that many of them are marginalized, face discrimination and are victims of violent attacks. anti-gypsyism is an obstacle to their inclusion in society and to full respect for their rights. this resolution, which i fully endorse, calls on the member states to combat all forms of racism and stigmatisation against the roma and to prevent and eliminate all forms of discrimination against them, particularly in employment, education and access to housing. in this sense, it is time for national roma integration strategies to be fully implemented, with particular attention to the situation of women and children. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. they solemnly declare that a european day should be dedicated to the commemoration of the victims of this genocide, which will contribute to a better knowledge of the history of the roma in europe. european citizens who are at the heart of our europe; an open, tolerant and inclusive europe.
mr president, thanks to your recommendation, road safety is becoming a priority concern for the european union. this is already the case in france, and french motorists have become real milk cows under the pretext of safety. even if you claim that this ecall system will be made available free of charge, its installation in vehicles will inevitably have a production cost which will inevitably have an impact on their selling price. the ecall system, which is installed in all vehicles, would ensure that the emergency call to 112 is made and that a gps signal is sent to enable rescuers to be more responsive. the intention is very commendable, but the impact analysis you have presented to us seems to us to be very inadequate, if not incomplete. one to ten per cent fewer road deaths, two to 15 per cent less serious injuries - these figures give us the impression that we have come out of the woodwork. the system also provides for rules - much has been said - on data protection and privacy. these are, of course, the ones that most raise our eyebrows. how can you guarantee that this data will not be used for any purpose other than relief? your primary mission here is to protect the economic interests, particularly of consumers, rather than trying to ensure their safety by tracking them down. that is why we shall vote against this proposal.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i would like to thank all the co-rapporteurs for the joint work we have done in recent weeks, which has allowed us to achieve, i think, a good balance. the resolution of our committee is necessary for the commission to equip the european union with this new strategy which will bring coherence to the public policies implemented in the fight against alcoholism, while respecting, of course, the responsibilities of the member states. as you know, action in this area is not easy, not only because of the difficulty of the subject, but also because of the many calls that have been made to our committee to take account of the economic aspects. however, we are the committee on the environment and health, and we must look at this resolution from the point of view of public health. we have been reminded that a number of points seemed to us to be essential, such as labelling and action in relation to young people and, in particular, the very harmful effects of alcohol on pregnant women. i would like to ask you, mr president, to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, and i hope that you will do so.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of alcohol has a very important place in the debate on public health and food safety. the resolution tabled in committee, however, seeks to propose a framework of recommendations in areas which are important but which do not fall within the union's competence. how can alcoholism be controlled in the family by means of rules or guidelines? can we here try to guide behaviour which is a private matter? we are talking about alcohol strategy, but many seem to forget that our terroirs produce wines and spirits which are noble elements of our culture. no strategy could therefore be defined without defending traditional productions. finally, it is essential to combine such a policy with a fight against counterfeit alcohol and against trafficking in this area. these phenomena represent a serious danger to the health of the population, especially the young and the poor, who may be attracted by prices lower than those of the market, often increased by the various taxes. before we go on another regulatory rampage, let's secure our food at the border and defend our local businesses. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, the alcohol problem is indeed very serious, but it is also our land that is at stake, and we must not neglect this economy. that is why we are also defending our own territories, whether in france, spain or italy.
madam president, we all of course agree on the consequences of alcohol abuse: diseases, premature deaths, road accidents, accidents in life, too. of course, prevention is necessary, and the whole point is to balance responsibility, pleasure and public health. it is the abuse of alcohol that must be denounced, not the consumption itself. i have tabled amendments to that effect. we have to differentiate between the categories of alcohol. it seems to me unreasonable to want to provide for a nutritional labelling for wine. i think that the nutrition labelling should only cover very sweet blends, which are very popular with young people. yes, nutrition labelling is useful. but as far as wine is concerned, i beg you, let us stop imposing additional constraints on wine growers, who find themselves in a difficult situation of competition with wines from other continents. instead, we should hold wine growers, health professionals, pregnant women and young people responsible: responsible consumption is about pleasure and moderation. it is important to provide information and to develop reference systems of good practice. yes to prevention, but i beg you, it must not be through additional regulatory constraints. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, if we impose labelling regulations, they will be imposed on everyone. but i really wanted to bring attention to our winemakers. you know that wine is part of our heritage, of our culture, but it's also a big part of our economy. so let us stop adding to the cost we are going to impose on our wine growers by additional regulations. there will be an extra cost anyway, and they don't need to have extra taxes. that is why i say that it would unfortunately be a bad measure. i prefer preventive measures that involve holding everyone accountable.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to the rapporteurs to congratulate them on this resolution, which, in my view, addresses the main issues related to an alcohol strategy. firstly, i welcome the distinction between responsible drinking and alcohol abuse. there is no contradiction between moderation and a healthy life-style, but there is no contradiction between moderation and excessive drinking. secondly, i think it is important to include the notion of national, regional and local specificities. in europe, the situation is very different. it is important to take these local specificities into account in order to have a suitable strategy. it is also a matter of defending our heritage and traditions. the means available to the wine sectors through the wine-growing cmo must be maintained. finally, i agree with the recall of the principle of subsidiarity, since in this matter it is the member states who are in the front line. however, rather than talking about a new strategy, as in the resolution, i think we should rather continue and improve the one already in place. it has proved itself and the efforts made should be encouraged. finally, i think that one point is essential. this idea raises a lot of questions, particularly the minimum price, and i do not see how we can apply it.
in writing. it is essential that the issues relating to the effects of alcohol abuse on society are taken into account in national public policies and that this issue is addressed at european level. the european parliament's call for this resolution is therefore justified. it is vital, however, to avoid conflating moderate drinking with excessive drinking. the latter must be combated through effective prevention and treatment policies targeted primarily at vulnerable populations. however, the consumption of alcohol, when it is moderate, cannot be considered a social problem. it is, on the contrary, a reflection of the cultural habits and gastronomic heritage that make our regions and europe so rich. the report deals with the various alcohol-related behaviours and the question of product quality in a balanced way, which is essential. however, rather than calling for a new strategy, we should remain in the continuity of the strategy already in place and which has shown its potential.
madam president, two years ago, on 24 april 2013, an eight-storey building, the rana plaza, collapsed in the capital of bangladesh. nearly 1,200 people died in that tragedy. these were mostly blue-collar workers, working in old garment factories for western multinational corporations. the european union is partly to blame for this tragedy, because by pledging allegiance to the american model of ultra-liberal globalisation, it has encouraged social dumping and accepted the exploitation of poverty. what lessons did she learn from rana plaza? i don't have one. it has limited itself to adopting a directive, dated 22 october 2014, which obliges large companies to publish, as of 2017, information on the respect of human rights. but this is a deception, for there is no penalty. the corporate lobby has won. there are fears that there will be more rana plaza's in the near future.
madam president, i would like to say that this plan for cod, herring and sprat is, in a way, flawed in its merits. the plan is quite drastic, and understandable, since it is aimed at saving endangered stocks. but it is difficult to accept that parliament has delegated too much power to the european commission. in this respect, the plan is symptomatic of a parliament which is giving up its prerogatives to the commission. the member states themselves are excluded from decision-making, despite the principle of regionalisation of the common fisheries policy. we are therefore particularly wary of technical measures which the commission would be forced to adopt without always having relevant and regularly updated scientific studies.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been negotiating for two months the measures that fishermen and national authorities will have to implement to implement this reform, which, it must be said, is upsetting the rules of the common fisheries policy. i have always said, and i repeat it today, that the landing obligation will be extremely difficult to implement, particularly for multispecies fisheries and small-scale fisheries. please, commissioner, when your services are called upon to make legislative proposals, you must measure the social, environmental and economic impacts. the measure of requiring fishermen to land all the catches made during a fishing trip is a generous idea in itself, because it is intended to encourage the professionals to be more selective, and that is what we want. however, as i said, we can see that this will be difficult to implement. our common concern is obviously to conserve the resource while maintaining viable economic activity, but i remain convinced that we must focus our efforts on the selectivity of the machines. the agreement we reached in the trilogue fortunately helps to mitigate the negative effects. firstly, the commission will have to publish annual implementation reports which will make it possible to assess the problems faced by fishermen and to find solutions. these reports will be prepared on the basis of data provided by the member states. the penalties for non-compliance with the landing obligation will only take effect from 1 january 2017, giving fishermen time to adapt. measures to prevent the creation of parallel markets for small-scale fishing will have to be put in place by producer organisations. in addition, measures to facilitate the storage and disposal of juveniles landed will have to be put in place by the member states. the storage conditions for unwanted catches on board have been relaxed compared with the commission's proposal. this was necessary. you mentioned the multiannual management plan for the baltic sea in the previous debate. this plan is very important, everyone said so. it is the first to be drawn up under the new common fisheries policy. it will thus serve, as our colleague mr affonte has said and as you yourself have said, commissioner vella, as a model for all other plans. i am also very concerned about the attitude of certain member states in the council, who are trying to override the prerogatives of parliament. despite the recent ruling of the court of justice in the case of venezuela, which upheld parliament's right, these member states continue to challenge the codecision procedure for multiannual plans. a joint statement by france and spain stresses, and i quote, 'the inadequacy of the ordinary legislative procedure'. these member states also consider that the conclusions of the task force on multiannual plans have not been endorsed by the council - see above - and have no interinstitutional status. these conclusions do have a status, that of mutual trust between parliament and the council. france and spain want to break that trust. as chairman of the committee on fisheries, i strongly condemn this attempt to violate the treaties. i call upon the council, therefore, in his absence, to take a reasonable position. i shall not hesitate to defend parliament's prerogatives to the last, if the council chooses the interinstitutional conflict.
madam president, the landing obligation is not applicable: it will oblige fishermen to store the discards in their vessel, which is technically difficult for small-scale fishing, and it will impose additional costs on them, since they will have to reduce their fishing time and consume fuel to make additional trips. and where will the fish landed end up? will they be destroyed or recycled? if the latter option is chosen, to whose benefit? who's really gonna handle the landing? the most sensible solution would be to reduce discards by improving the selectivity of fishing gear, in particular through new types of trawls. however, if this proposal for a regulation were nevertheless adopted, at least derogations or a transitional period should be granted to small-scale fisheries to enable them to adapt. this transitional period would thus allow fishermen to renew their equipment, with full support from the emff, since this is a regulatory obligation.
madam president, commissioner, i apologize, i had a vote in the committee on budgets. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 'zero discards' was a slogan of the reform of the common fisheries policy, which is now facing reality. and unfortunately, this is not the reality of zero-waste but of mandatory landing. we have moved a problem to land that we were unable to deal with at sea, and i regret that we have not always taken the time to face the real problems and to find the right solutions in terms of selective fishing gear and fishing practices to avoid this mortality of the resource, in a spirit of european support for fishermen rather than in that of eternal sanctions. the choice to convert this waste into flour was made by the majority, not by me. i guess so. we will not rewrite the history of the common fisheries policy. today we must assess and above all evaluate this obligation, this requirement, and we know how much it will affect the fishermen's daily life and their work. the sustainability of fishing enterprises and coastal activities is at stake.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the quality of this debate. i would also like to thank all those who have been involved in the preparation of this report: the fictitious rapporteurs, the secretariat of the committee on fisheries, our advisers, the european commission - commissioner - and the latvian presidency, without whom none of this would have been possible. i would also like to thank my assistants, emilie and vincent. the landing obligation will need the support of all if it is to be properly implemented. the credibility of our institutions and the common fisheries policy is at stake. i hope that cooperation between the commission, the member states, parliament, the professionals and the scientists will allow for the proper implementation of this obligation, for the benefit of the resource and the fishermen, because i still think that this will be difficult, as i said earlier in my opening speech. selectivity is still the real answer to this problem.
mr president, the eulex mission was set up in 2008 to help kosovo become a state governed by the rule of law. it is the largest civilian mission in the european union. and now we see that it has failed! three of its top officials are even suspected of corruption. french jurist jean-paul jacquet was assigned to investigate. in the report he has just submitted, he confirms that serious malfunctions have occurred. a figure on page 16 summarizes the failure of eulex: in 2012, kosovo was ranked 105th in the world in terms of resistance to corruption; in 2014, it was down to 110th. so he's dropped five places in two years. the jacquet report proposes solutions to improve the efficiency of eulex, but i am pessimistic about its chances of being heard, because the european union is radically unfit to restore order in a country so gangrenous with organised crime.
mr president, rampant deflation, unemployment at its highest, sluggish growth - this is the state of europe after seven years of crisis, marked by austerity policies that are as ineffective as they are tragic for the peoples of europe. it is time to break with the blind application of ever more rigid rules and take a further step towards federalism, to finally equip the european union with genuine economic governance. yes, the 2008 crisis shook our economies, but it's the disunity of our states that explains our impasse. while we should have a comprehensive strategy for the european union, some are still blind to the reasons for this crisis: the cowardice of heads of state who use european decisions for their short-term electoral concerns and who forget the essential thing, the future of the european peoples. the decisions on economic and fiscal policy must no longer be in the hands of the representatives of the states alone, but must also be entrusted to the representatives of the european people, to this parliament. this is a necessity, because it is only by moving towards more federalism that the european union can really act for its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we would be wrong to give up first-generation biofuels abruptly. many studies, including the ecofys report published on 12 november, challenge the method of calculating indirect land use change, which was used by the commission to abruptly amend its 1998 and 2008 directives. if research into advanced biofuels must be continued, we must also take account of the heavy investments already made - i am thinking in particular of our farmers, who have relied on these future energies to overcome the serious crisis in their sector. this cannot be done by a stroke of a pen, even though the second generation of biofuels does not yet seem to be in a position to take over from the first. the 7% ceiling proposed by the council therefore seems to me to be more reasonable because it is more respectful of investments which have been made in the long term, for the long term. since the barthe law of 1923, my country, france, has played a pioneering role in biofuels. i believe in the ability of our farmers and our industrialists to continue to lead by example, provided you do not cut the grass under their feet.
mr president, it is true that this question has been very controversial for a number of years. the european union had done a lot to promote the development of biofuels, but the somewhat disappointing results of these efforts have led to questions. some feel that the agreement reached is not ambitious enough, others that it goes too far. i would say that it is balanced and that it allows, in short, to preserve the investments made in these first generation biofuels, but at the same time it ensures that these biofuels do not compete with food production and that they do not produce greenhouse gas emissions that are excessive in relation to other agricultural land. investors could not be victims of a radical change in policy: they need time. when you invest, you have to have a long-term vision. nor could they bear the consequences of this method of calculation based on land allocation, which seems to me to be very uncertain and very scientifically contested. i am glad that this agreement allows only a simple report pending better calculation methods. the 0.5% sub-target for advanced biofuels is an encouraging, pragmatic target, but i regret that it is not binding, because the resources to create such biofuels are still too small. europe must not be left behind in the field of sustainable fuels, and that is why it must strongly support research and development in this field.
mr president, commissioner, this is the end of the false good solution, first generation biofuels. the idea seemed appealing at first: driving without using oil. yet hell is paved with good intentions. it was an aberration and we must of course be pleased that the european union and you, commissioner, have decided to turn your back on these fuels which are only organic in name. at a time when we are aiming to reach a binding global compromise at the paris summit - cop21 - we have a first positive signal from europe: we are ready to get serious about the low-carbon economy. of course, not everything is perfect, far from it. i would have liked to go further, asking for the inclusion of iluc factors in the sustainability criteria for agrofuels or imposing binding targets for virtuous biofuels. it must be borne in mind, however, that this is a compromise which is only a step, but an important step. we now have a course: the future is advanced biofuels; first generation biofuels are out of date. the bottom line is this: europe is finally recognizing that agrofuels are not the answer to climate change. the ball is now in the court of the member states. in france, for example, the objective is to create 150 000 jobs in the field of advanced biofuels by 2020. we are facing a challenge, which we will address at cop21 in december in paris. the decision we are making today is the right one.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to warmly congratulate my danish colleague, margrete auken, the rapporteur for this text for parliament, on the quality of the negotiations and the results achieved. today we are voting on the new european strategy to reduce plastic bags for our next house. it's true that these sacs can take up to four centuries to start breaking down, and the oceans are suffocated by their particles. plastic bags, made of petroleum-derived polyethylene, are a scourge to the environment - as has been said - a real poison, and far-reaching measures were needed to stop this massive pollution. it's done today. there will be a reduction: today we use 200 plastic bags per capita; this figure will rise to 90 by 2019 and to 40 in ten years. second, we will end free plastic bags for food by 2018. the task has not been easy, as too often when it comes to protecting our health and our ecosystem, with water at the heart of the issue we are addressing today. but we could have gone further, because, as they say in french, the devil is in the details. i am referring to the so-called oxobiodegradable bags, as my colleague mentioned. in fact, they are not biodegradable, they break down into millions of micro-particles and they increase the risk to ecosystems. this means, commissioner, that tomorrow when you eat oysters, you will find micro-particles in the oysters and in the water they contain. the commission could have gone much further by banning these so-called oxobiodegradable bags. you have not done so and you have preferred to privilege the interests of a particular niche rather than prevent this pollution that will affect biodiversity.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, mrs bearder, you who are sensitive to the environment, what is your position on the fact that we have not banned the use of oxobiodegradable plastic bags? we ban what is seen, but what is not seen is not banned because there are economic issues.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a cursory glance at this text to reduce the consumption of plastic bags should lead us to adopt it unanimously. but when you look at it more closely, it looks less like a compromise than the optical illusion that the european union is accustomed to. we are concentrating our efforts on one detail so as not to challenge the system, we are promulgating a cosmetic directive on certain plastic bags, while at the same time encouraging more transport and more international interdependence. firstly, these are provisions which apply to a small sample of packaging, without a global vision. the ban on certain bags will therefore lead to the proliferation of questionable alternative packaging, as is already the case in many shops. instead, the nations are brought under the commission's thumb on a new chapter, down to the last detail. it is therefore an emblematic text of a european union that is overly legislative, without regard for the principle of subsidiarity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is once again engaging in a debate with good intentions, but without any viable solution. monitoring, monitoring and sanctioning non-compliance with the co2 reduction targets in the shipping sector is a very timid triptych in the attempt to limit air pollution. you are not trying to solve the problem at its root, namely, a globalized economic system that encourages unlimited and ever-increasing free trade. the proposal we are discussing is, moreover, a jumble of regulatory complexity and costs. it would be necessary to involve the economic actors concerned more closely in order to carry out a sound study of the consequences of this proposal. finally, i would draw your attention to the method chosen because there is no satisfactory mechanism here for an international agreement binding the member states. should the commission act and impose a supranational framework? no, you can't! such reasoning is contrary to respect for sovereignty. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, the proposal is indeed based on the finding of a lack of agreement, but it is not for the commission to fill this gap. the member states are the first to be affected and must negotiate this in a multilateral and international framework, not a supranational one.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council decision authorises member states to become parties to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards for the training, licensing and watchkeeping of personnel on fishing vessels. competence in fisheries is normally vested in the union under the treaties, but only member states can ratify this convention. it provides that minimum qualifications will be required for seafarers and standards of vocational training. it thus contributes to the harmonisation of equal treatment of workers. in addition, there will be no increase in training costs for member states, as the union already funds training in the fisheries sector, through the european maritime and fisheries fund. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation to allow member states to become parties, in the interest of the european union, to the international maritime organisation convention on standards for the training, certification and watchkeeping of personnel on fishing vessels. the aim of the convention is to ensure that seafarers are qualified by promoting vocational training and to contribute to the reduction of risks to the safety and health of seafarers and all personnel on fishing vessels. its scope covers vessels of 24 metres in length or more and of 750 kw or more power. the convention encourages member states to apply these safety and qualification standards to ships of the same size but of lower power. i voted for this recommendation because it is important to ensure a minimum level of training in the fisheries sector and to guarantee working conditions and safety on board to prevent accidents at work. by adopting this recommendation, the union thus authorises the member states to ratify the convention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which, in accordance with the council's recommendations, aims to authorise all member states to ratify the international convention on the training of personnel on fishing vessels of the imo (international maritime organisation), adopted by the ilo (international labour organisation) in july 1995. the report stresses that european directives take precedence in the event of intra-community disputes, but ratification of the convention by all member states will guarantee a minimum level of qualification for seafarers and standards of vocational training that will help to reduce risks.
in writing. this report concerns the council's proposal to authorise the member states of the union to become parties to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards for the training, certification and watchkeeping of personnel on fishing vessels. at present, only four eu member states have ratified the convention. it aims in particular to reduce the risks to the safety of fishing vessel personnel by requiring them to hold a certificate attesting to their qualifications and medical fitness. the union does not have the right to sign this convention, as only the member states have the right to do so. however, the case law of the court of justice requires an authorisation from the union to allow member states to ratify the convention, since fisheries are among the exclusive competences of the union. in the field of fisheries, the member states are thus placed under the union's supervision, but the aim of this report, namely the accession of the member states of the union to this convention, can be welcomed. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament proposes to adopt a motion for a resolution approving the council's draft authorising member states to ratify the international convention on the harmonization of standards for the training, certification and watchkeeping of personnel on fishing vessels of the international maritime organisation. first of all, it is good that the member states (not the european union) have the power to sign an international convention. in addition, it strengthens the minimum level of qualification required for seafarers with a view to improving maritime safety. the sea must no longer remain a zone of non-rule where unfair competition and non-compliance with basic safety rules flourish. that is why i voted for this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this council proposal as it will facilitate the ratification by member states of the international convention on standards of personnel on fishing vessels. it seems to me that it is a common sense measure to guarantee a minimum level of qualification for this staff. it is also a question of equal treatment of workers, since this will allow the harmonization of vocational training standards as a whole. the council's proposal underlines that the eu is not empowered to ratify international conventions; it is therefore a reminder of the sovereignty of the member states and the non-federal nature of the european union. i would point out, however, that the council in its proposal stressed the principle of the primacy of european standards in the event of divergent opinions in intra-community relations.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to authorise member states to ratify the stcw-f convention in accordance with the exclusive competence of the union for the recognition of regulated professions exercised by union nationals on board fishing vessels. the aim of the convention is to ensure that the personnel working on board european fishing vessels are qualified, fit for work and perform their duties under the necessary safety conditions. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. as the report states, fishing has one of the highest accident rates. the sector plays an important role in the european economy. the union hereby authorises the member states to ratify the international convention on standards of personnel on fishing vessels. it thus demonstrates its concern for the training of workers on fishing vessels, which falls within its exclusive competence. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council decision authorises member states to become parties to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards for the training, licensing and watchkeeping of personnel on fishing vessels. competence in fisheries is normally vested in the union under the treaties, but only member states can ratify this convention. it provides that minimum qualifications will be required for seafarers and standards of vocational training. it thus contributes to the harmonisation of equal treatment of workers. in addition, there will be no increase in training costs for member states, as the union already funds training in the fisheries sector, through the european maritime and fisheries fund. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council decision authorises member states to become parties to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards for the training, licensing and watchkeeping of personnel on fishing vessels. competence in fisheries is normally vested in the union under the treaties, but only member states can ratify this convention. it provides that minimum qualifications will be required for seafarers and standards of vocational training. it thus contributes to the harmonisation of equal treatment of workers. in addition, there will be no increase in training costs for member states, as the union already funds training in the fisheries sector, through the european maritime and fisheries fund. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the approval of the draft council decision on the international convention on standards for personnel on fishing vessels. the aim of the convention is to ensure that the personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified, to reduce the risks to the safety of seafarers at sea and to promote vocational training. the draft decision, which aims to authorise the member states to ratify this convention in accordance with the competences of the european union, i welcome the approval given by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report authorising member states to become party to the international maritime organisation's international convention on standards for the training, certification and watchkeeping of personnel on fishing vessels. the main objective of this convention is to ensure that the personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified, in particular to limit the risks to the safety of persons and property at sea.
in writing. ‒ having already made it known in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of the ribeiro recommendation on the council decision authorising the member states to sign and/or ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 1995 international convention on standards of training for personnel on fishing vessels in practical terms, the convention ensures that the personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for work. it will also limit the risks to the safety of persons and/or property at sea and establish and maintain fair working conditions in the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it encourages member states to ratify this convention, which guarantees a minimum level of qualification for fishing vessel personnel, as well as vocational training standards that contribute to reducing risks.
in writing. - i vote for it. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the aim of this convention is to guarantee a minimum level of qualification for seafarers and the application of mandatory standards of vocational training which contribute to the reduction of risks. since eu law prevails over national law, member states must apply directives establishing rules on the professional qualifications of fishing vessel personnel, the granting of patents and equal treatment in the case of worker mobility. this proposal will facilitate the ratification of the convention by the member states. although we regret that european legislation is binding on the member states, the aim of this project is to harmonize and eliminate the inequalities in the treatment of seafarers. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted for this report, as he had done in the empl committee. this report will enable the eu member states to ratify the international maritime organisation (imo) convention on standards for personnel on fishing vessels. this ratification will set up the same standards in all signatory states and will allow for the uniform treatment of workers from one country to another. this ratification will therefore eventually make it possible to combat social dumping.
in writing. ‒ the proposed text aims to encourage states to ratify the international convention on the training of fishermen. in effect, only the member states can ratify this convention, but only after the eu has given its consent. the training of seafarers is based on a high-level skill base. when i visited the euromaritime exhibition last february, i had the pleasure of meeting the students of the national maritime school. i was able to see how passionate the seafarers are. the recommendation in question is not about the merchant navy but about fisheries, which is the most difficult and accident-prone sector in the world. i would point out, however, that the commission wants to force the member states which have ratified this international convention to forbid themselves from resorting to international law so that disputes are dealt with under the authority of the european court of justice. i vote in favour with reservations on this point.
in writing. ‒ the proposal will facilitate the ratification of the international convention on the training of personnel on fishing vessels of the who, adopted by the ilo in july 1995 by the member states. it also recalls that european standards prevail in the event of divergent opinions in intra-community relations. in so far as this contributes to the harmonisation of equal treatment of workers, the vote may be in favour.
in writing. meps are to adopt, in plenary, the report on the council's draft to allow eu member states to become party to the international convention on standards for the training, certification and watchkeeping of personnel on fishing vessels of the international maritime organisation. only four member states of the union have ratified the convention. the union cannot ratify the convention, only the member states are entitled to do so. however, the case law of the court of justice of the union requires an authorisation from the union to allow member states to ratify the convention, since fisheries are within the exclusive competence of the union. the aim of the convention is to reduce the risks to the safety of fishing vessel personnel by requiring them to hold a certificate attesting to their qualifications and to their medically proven fitness. although the member states are placed under the union's fisheries protection, the objective of the union's member states' accession to the convention can be welcomed. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which authorises member states to sign and ratify the international maritime organisation (imo) international convention of 1995 on standards for the training, certification and watchkeeping of personnel on fishing vessels. while fishing is one of the most dangerous occupations in the world (24,000 deaths per year), the convention contains provisions to harmonise the protection measures for persons working on board fishing vessels (qualification, risk reduction, promotion of vocational training).
in writing. this report concerns the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for personnel on fishing vessels (stcw-f), adopted by the international maritime organisation on 7 july 1995. eu member states are invited to ratify this convention, which aims to ensure that personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for work and thus to limit the risks to the safety of persons and property at sea. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i would like to say that the commission is not involved in this.
in writing. ‒ the convention guarantees a minimum level of qualification for seafarers and standards of vocational training that contribute to the reduction of risks. eu legislation prevails for member states in fisheries: they have to comply with several directives setting out rules on the professional qualifications of seafarers, the granting of patents and equal treatment in the case of worker mobility. however, the european union as an organisation cannot ratify this convention: only the member states can do so individually. several member states have already signed the convention: the legislative proposal simply needs to specify the terms of compatibility between ratification of the convention and european legislation. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ today, fishing is the occupation with the highest accident rate, and the number of work-related deaths is estimated at 24 000 per year. in the face of this worrying observation, the union decided to react and encourage the member states to take the necessary measures. i am pleased to have voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ensure that the personnel working on board fishing vessels have the necessary qualifications, thereby limiting the risk of endangerment and death. moreover, this text is of particular importance in allowing member states to ratify the 1995 international convention while ensuring compliance with the union's exclusive competence for the recognition of regulated professions in this sector.
in writing. ‒ fishing is the occupation with the highest rate of accidents and deaths at work, so action must be taken on the causes of this sad record. vocational training helps to reduce and avoid accidents by preparing seafarers for hazardous situations at sea. the 1995 imo stcw-f convention aims to ensure that personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified and hold an official certificate attesting to their fitness for work. as rapporteur for an opinion, i recommended that the provisions of the convention be incorporated into community law, so that it could be extended to vessels of less than 24 metres and so that it would not be a downward levelling, since some member states have higher requirements. the rights of workers in terms of living and working conditions on board must also evolve. it is therefore urgent that ilo convention no 188 on work in fisheries be ratified and incorporated into community law. beyond these challenges, the quality of the work tool is also a safety factor. fishing vessels with an average age of more than 30 years are in urgent need of renewal.
in writing. ‒ the eu is responsible for all fisheries, but as an organisation it cannot ratify the convention. only the member states can do this, on an individual basis. this convention guarantees a minimum level of qualification for seafarers and standards of vocational training that contribute to the reduction of risks. however, eu law prevails for member states in fisheries matters; the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i am voting for this convention because it promotes equal treatment of workers and would therefore allow french workers to defend themselves better than they can today.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this debate because at a time when europe is acknowledging investment deficits, it was necessary to channel 21 billion in european funds. i regret, however, that the rigidity of our budgetary procedures has led to delays in the release of these funds.
in writing. ‒ after abstaining on the vote on the obrycht/thomas report on the carry-over of unused appropriations in 2014, i have again chosen to abstain on this draft amending budget, because the advantages it presents - i am thinking of the sums paid to the european agricultural fund for rural development - do not allow the allocation of part of these appropriations to the asylum, migration and integration fund, which, as its name indicates, is intended to facilitate legal immigration.
in writing. this vote concerns the draft amending budget following the adoption of the amendment to regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 to allow the carry-over of unused commitment appropriations in 2014 (eur 21 billion, or 15% of the 2014 budget) to subsequent years, in accordance with article 19 of the multiannual financial framework. the legal acts laying down the rules for the implementation of the funds were adopted later than planned, which in fact delayed the conclusion of the agreement on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. these year-to-year carryovers feed into the stock of unpaid invoices (which amounted to around eur 24 billion at the end of 2014, despite the eur 4.8 billion obtained in the trilogue at the end of 2014). we are told that this is a matter of technical adjustments, but in the end it is the local authorities who are paying for these delays and arrears. however, in line with the obrycht/thomas report, i have decided to abstain on this draft amending budget.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation concerns the adoption of an amending budget providing for the revision of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. this revision follows the carry-overs of uncommitted erdf and eafrd appropriations in 2015 due to the serious delays in the signature of the partnership agreements and in the adoption of the operational programmes. the european union is facing a record €24 billion in arrears, and the postponement of these commitment appropriations will have a major impact on the overall payment situation. the draft amending budget also proposes an increase of eur 2 500 000 for the instrument for preaccession aid, which is totally unreasonable in view of the need to control expenditure, especially that for the accession of new member states. for all these reasons i abstained on the vote on this draft amending budget.
in writing. i supported this draft amending budget because the delay in adopting the programmes should not penalise the recipients of european funds. the multiannual financial framework should therefore be flexible to ensure that commitment appropriations not used in 2014 are used in 2015 or in subsequent years. i would, however, urge caution in future with regard to this type of practice, since we must not get into the habit of reprogramming appropriations already committed for a later year.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to revise the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 to allow the appropriation of commitments of eur 21 billion for the financial years 2015, 2016 and 2017. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european parliament's contribution to the cost of the european parliament's budget for the financial year. although this decision should ease the construction of the budgets for 2015, 2016 and 2017 in terms of payment appropriations, it does not solve the problem of the member states' unpaid debts, which still amount to 24.4 billion. the european commission needs to take the initiative quickly to find a solution to this problem. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal, on the amending budget for the european union for 2015 proposed by the commission and the council. the report welcomes the decision of the council and the commission to reallocate the unused appropriations in 2014 to the 2015 budget. the committee also stressed that the commission's proposal was to be implemented in a more transparent manner, and that the commission should be able to take account of the views of the member states and the public.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, which provides, inter alia, for a revision of the multiannual financial framework in the event of late adoption of rules or programmes under shared management, so that the unused appropriations in 2014 are carried over to subsequent years. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ this vote on the draft amending budget is the logical follow-up to the vote on the multiannual financial framework on 15 april. dominique martin again abstained on this vote because the reasoning remains the same: 21 billion in appropriations were not used in 2014 due to the late adoption of regulations and programmes concerning certain european funds. although the problem of late payments is likely to worsen, funds which france receives, such as the eafrd or fisheries, are also included in the budget lines in question: it is therefore more appropriate to abstain again.
in writing. ‒ this report amends the eu budget for 2015 to take account of the revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 that parliament voted in the previous session. in principle, this framework can be revised if some programmes could not be launched as early as 2014. rather than losing all the 2014 appropriations for these programmes, this amendment allows them to be partially carried over to 2015. this only marginally corrects the known shortcomings of this multiannual financial framework, which is also marked by austerity. and this is yet another example of the unpredictability of european budget management. the eu's budget is currently at €21 billion, and the eu's budget is €21 billion. the only thing we are talking about here is the carry-over of 19 billion. the lack of serious budgetary planning is therefore also used as a pretext for a new round of austerity - minus two billion. i am voting against these manipulations which do nothing to improve an already disastrous initial budget.
in writing. this vote concerns the draft amending budget following the adoption of the amendment to regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 to allow the transfer to subsequent years of unused commitment appropriations in 2014 (eur 21 billion or 15% of the 2014 budget), in accordance with article 19 of the multiannual financial framework. this situation is linked to the delay in the conclusion of the agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2014-2020, as the legal acts laying down the rules for the implementation of the funds were adopted later than planned. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. while this is a seemingly technical correction, these year-on-year deferrals are feeding into the stock of unpaid invoices (which amounts to around eur 24 billion at the end of 2014 despite the eur 4.8 billion obtained in trilogue at the end of 2014). still, we're waiting for a cleanup plan. in the meantime, the costs are borne by the local authorities. in line with the vote on the obrycht/thomas report, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which provides for the effective transfer of unused commitment appropriations in 2014 to the 2015 budget. the principle of this transfer, which makes it possible not to lose and to implement rapidly the appropriations for the structural and investment funds, was already voted on at the previous plenary session.
in writing. ‒ this budget amendment follows the obrycht-thomas report adopted at the first april part-session. this is a simple operational decision. since i abstained on the report, it is logical and not for reasons of consistency that i also abstain on this amendment.
in writing. ‒ following the approval of the council of the union, parliament voted on the revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. this amendment concerns the actual transfer of unused commitment appropriations in 2014 to the 2015 budget. i voted in favour of this amendment, which will allow these appropriations to be used for new projects.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to introduce an obligation for car manufacturers to install an ecall in-vehicle system in certain types of motor vehicles. the device would ensure that emergency calls are handled properly by the emergency services and that a gps signal is sent to enable rescuers to easily locate the accidented vehicle. the expected benefits are a reduction in the number of fatalities and the severity of injuries suffered by road users, as well as a reduction in congestion-related costs. however, this system seems questionable as regards the protection of users' privacy. we cannot guarantee that these provisions have no other purpose than the safety of users. it is likely to increase the price of cars. although an amendment provides that users can disconnect this geo-location system fairly easily, it would be more appropriate if users could only activate this system voluntarily if they so wished. these uncertainties about privacy and consumer spending power, as well as the impact assessment, will lead me to vote against this proposal for a regulation. however, i voted in favour of the amendment which aims to make it easy for users to disconnect the ecall system manually.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it provides for greater safety and access to care following a road accident. every second counts when it comes to medical care.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to oblige car manufacturers to install the ecall system on a general basis. the european commission's initiative, this automatic emergency call system is supposed to allow an accident-prone vehicle to call emergency services instantly while sending its precise location, whether its occupants are conscious or not, and regardless of the eu country in which the vehicle is located. based on the 'e112' (enhanced 112), the single european emergency number 112, ecall would allow for faster intervention by the emergency services, adapted to the severity of the accident and the type of vehicle involved. the vote was only on an amendment to allow users to easily disconnect the ecall system and i therefore voted in favour. however, i remain perplexed as to the relevance of the introduction of this system: the impact analysis seemed to me very unsatisfactory and therefore cannot be used to promote this dubious 'technological development'. apart from the impact on the production cost and thus on the selling price of the vehicle, how can we be sure that this data will not be used for purposes other than emergency services?
in writing. the aim of this recommendation is to introduce an obligation for car manufacturers to install the ecall in-vehicle system in certain types of motor vehicles. the proposal for a basic regulation requires that new types of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles be built in such a way as to ensure that an emergency call to the number 112 is automatically triggered and a gps signal is sent to enable rescuers to easily locate the accidented vehicle, as from 1 october 2015. it also provides for rules on data protection and privacy, taking into account the nature of the information transmitted by this service. i oppose this recommendation because, under the guise of protecting citizens and improving road safety and prevention, two problems arise: what assurance is given to ensure that the data will not be used for purposes other than rescue and that there is no risk of invasion of citizens' privacy? secondly, how much will the cost of manufacturing the vehicles increase and what additional costs will the consumer have to bear? in view of these factors, i have decided against this text.
in writing. on 19 march, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection approved the council's position without amending it. the commission's recommendation requires that new commercial and passenger vehicles be equipped with a system allowing a call to the european emergency number, 112, in the event of a serious accident. the objectives pursued are praiseworthy but the proportionality of the proposed means with the stated objectives is questionable. this type of equipment raises questions about the protection of personal data. in addition, this system is not new, with manufacturers offering it on some models. this compulsory system will have a cost which will ultimately be borne by the consumer. i regret the shortcomings of the impact assessment. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's proposal for a regulation aims to introduce an obligation for car manufacturers to have an on-board ecall system that allows emergency calls to be handled properly by the emergency services. vehicles will have to be built in such a way that they guarantee the automatic triggering of an emergency call to the number 112 as well as the sending of a gps signal to allow rapid location. these provisions raise questions about privacy and the use of geo-location data for purposes other than rescue. furthermore, the impact assessment does not suggest that the benefits will outweigh the financial costs of such a device and the risks it poses to the user's right to privacy. we may even question whether the stated intention is the real objective to be achieved. that is why i voted against this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the introduction of the ecall deployment regulation. this mechanism provides that in the event of an accident the ecall system will automatically trigger the emergency number 112. by october 2015, all new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles will have to be equipped with ecall. drivers and passengers will now be assured that emergency services will be on hand in case of an accident. this is a major step forward in road safety.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this text which, under the praiseworthy pretext of strengthening road safety, presents risks in terms of protecting the privacy of our citizens. the text provides for the geolocation of crashed vehicles by the ecall system. however, there is no guarantee that these data cannot be used for other purposes. the system will also have a direct impact on the cost of car production, as it will require the installation of ecall in new types of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. the consequence will therefore be a further decline in the purchasing power of the citizens of the eu member states. the european union, which is so committed to freedom of movement, is therefore proposing a measure here which restricts the freedom of citizens through the security issue.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to deploy from 1 october 2015 a system of automatic and manual emergency calls in the event of a serious accident involving personal vehicles. the text will eventually make it possible to equip all vehicles in the union and to adapt the emergency and response services of the member states to the minimum functionalities necessary to ensure adequate call handling. considering that this system should make it possible to strengthen the capacity of the member states to intervene in the event of a road accident, to improve road safety while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. with more than 100 million road journeys a year across the union, road safety is a major concern for citizens. the deployment of the ecall in-vehicle system is a real breakthrough in this respect. in view of the many road accidents, this system will allow for faster treatment of the injured. this will therefore be a factor in reducing road deaths. in addition, in an area of free road traffic, it seems to me essential to ensure the continuity of the emergency call service in all member states. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which has european added value.
in writing. ‒ road accidents still kill 70 people every day in the european union. in 2014, 28,000 people died and over a million were seriously injured. the deployment of the free ecall emergency call system on vehicles will automatically alert the 112 emergency services in the event of an accident, thereby locating the vehicle and speeding up the response of the emergency services. from 31 march 2018, new passenger car and light commercial vehicle models will have to be equipped with them. it is obviously necessary that this facility be financially and regulatory neutral for manufacturers and users in order not to jeopardise economic recovery. finally, the ecall system must comply with the highest data protection requirements. after lengthy negotiations with the council, the european parliament has obtained that they be deleted on a continuous basis, thus eliminating the risk of possible tracing.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to introduce an obligation for car manufacturers to install an ecall in-vehicle system in certain types of motor vehicles. the device would ensure that emergency calls are handled properly by the emergency services and that a gps signal is sent to enable rescuers to easily locate the accidented vehicle. the expected benefits are a reduction in the number of fatalities and the severity of injuries suffered by road users, as well as a reduction in congestion-related costs. however, this system seems questionable as regards the protection of users' privacy. we cannot guarantee that these provisions have no other purpose than the safety of users. it is likely to increase the price of cars. although an amendment provides that users can disconnect this geo-location system fairly easily, it would be more appropriate if users could only activate this system voluntarily if they so wished. these uncertainties about privacy and consumer spending power, as well as the impact assessment, will lead me to vote against this proposal for a regulation. however, i voted in favour of the amendment which aims to make it easy for users to disconnect the ecall system manually.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which requires that new types of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles be built in such a way as to guarantee the automatic triggering of an emergency call (ecall) to the number 112 in the event of a serious accident. road safety is a matter of such great concern to all our fellow citizens. i therefore welcome this action at european level which will ensure the interoperability and continuity of the service.
in writing. ‒ this is a concrete achievement of the european union, the effects of which citizens will be able to measure as early as 2018. the introduction of an automatic call system in vehicles that triggers itself in an emergency and contacts the emergency services will save valuable time for the emergency services and will certainly save lives. i do not know whether the ambition of reducing the annual number of road deaths by 10% will be achieved, but it is certain that this device will prove its effectiveness once it is operational. the european union is regularly criticised for being disconnected from the people. this type of initiative confirms that this is not the case.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to introduce an obligation for car manufacturers to install an ecall in-vehicle system in certain types of motor vehicles. the device would ensure that emergency calls are handled properly by the emergency services and that a gps signal is sent to enable rescuers to easily locate the accidented vehicle. the expected benefits are a reduction in the number of fatalities and the severity of injuries suffered by road users, as well as a reduction in congestion-related costs. however, this system seems questionable as regards the protection of users' privacy. we cannot guarantee that these will in particular raise the price of cars. although an amendment provides that users can disconnect this geo-location system fairly easily, it would be more appropriate if users could only activate this system voluntarily if they so wished. these uncertainties about privacy and consumer spending power, as well as the impact assessment, will lead me to vote against this proposal for a regulation. however, i voted in favour of the amendment which aims to make it easy for users to disconnect the ecall system manually.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague olga sehnalova on the deployment of the ecall system in the context of the eu's road safety policy. the system, when deployed in new car models, will allow the automatic call of the european emergency service 112 in the event of a serious accident, allowing emergency services to arrive quickly at the scene of the accident, including in the event of loss of consciousness of the injured person. the report will ensure interoperability and continuity of the system across europe and safeguard citizens' privacy and data protection. i welcome the adoption of this report which will reduce road fatalities in europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation to deploy the ecall emergency call system. this recommendation requires that new types of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles be constructed in such a way as to guarantee the automatic triggering of an emergency call to the number 112 in the event of a serious accident, while ensuring the protection of personal data. this is a major step forward in helping victims of road accidents. i welcome that vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the sehnalová report following the european commission's legislative proposal to require the deployment of an automatic emergency call system in new cars. the e-call system, which will be effective from 31 march 2018, will enable rescuers to know the position of an accidented vehicle in an instant and thus reduce, according to the commission's estimates, the number of road deaths by 10% per year. with over 25 000 people dying on european roads each year, the use of digital intelligence is proving to be an innovative and appropriate solution. the e-call system is one of the proposals supported in the campaign for the european elections.
in writing. ‒ although there is no final vote on the second reading, dominique martin is against this project. the ecall system is supposed to trigger an automatic call to the emergency number in the event of an accident and to allow geolocation. this means that all vehicles can be located at any time without users knowing who is using this information. it is an invasion of user privacy.
in writing. ‒ the e-call system is an on-board emergency call system. it is being developed at european level as europeans increasingly cross the borders of their home countries to travel to other eu countries. the council took account of the criticisms made by parliament at first reading. in particular, it made the compatibility of the ecall system with the galileo and egnos navigation systems mandatory. it also specifies the rules applicable to the protection of personal data. i am still disappointed that this system does not include a permanent translation service within the ecall service. but to the extent that it will help save lives, i vote for it.
in writing. the ecall system is designed to speed up the procedure for calling for help in road accidents. a european union regulation is therefore envisaged to extend it and to introduce an obligation for car manufacturers to install the ecall in-vehicle system. however, several criticisms can be made. firstly, the system is expensive, which may increase the final price of the vehicles, and this in return for a gain in terms of reducing the severity of accidents which has yet to be demonstrated. secondly, it is an invasion of privacy. how can we ensure that this data is not used for any purpose other than for relief? indeed, the geolocation of the crashed vehicles means that all vehicles can be tracked. this is yet another blow to individual liberties and respect for privacy by the commission. in these circumstances i can only oppose this text and vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the deployment of the european ecall system. from 2018, all new vehicles will have to be equipped with this system which will automatically call for help in the event of a serious accident. the ecall system has the potential to save many lives, as 25 700 people died in road accidents in europe in 2014. it comes with strong privacy safeguards, such as the location of the vehicle only in the event of an airbag deployment and the limited data automatically transmitted to emergency services by the device.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for the basic regulation requires that new types of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles be built in such a way as to ensure that an automatic call to the emergency number 112 is triggered and that a gps signal is sent to enable rescuers to easily locate the vehicle in the event of an accident, as from 1 october 2015. how can we ensure that this data is not used for purposes other than relief? the geolocation of the crashed vehicles means that all vehicles can be. a wonderful gift to the european commission and yet another intrusion into the privacy of people who have already been harmed. i would also like to stress that such a system will have a mechanical impact on the cost of producing the vehicle and therefore on the consumer price, which will be negatively affected. i therefore vote against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ at a time when road accidents are causing a great deal of death, the union must react and encourage member states to take real measures to improve road safety. this directly affects the lives of every european citizen. parliament responded to the call by adopting the regulation to ensure the deployment of the 112 ecall service in the union. i voted in favour of this text in order to provide solutions to improve road safety in the union.
in writing. ‒ road safety is one of the european parliament's major concerns. that is why i welcome the adoption of this report, which paves the way for the introduction of ecall in new cars within two to three years. by allowing early warning of emergency services in the event of an accident, this system will make a major contribution to reducing road deaths and the severity of injuries. it will also save time and cost for society as a whole when account is taken of congestion and the social security and insurance costs that may result from these accidents. however, we cannot achieve the digital revolution in transport without safety guards. the text adopted in plenary therefore prohibits any monitoring of users via ecall, which is a 'sleeping' system and only activates in the event of a collision (only the last three positions are recorded to facilitate the arrival of rescue services and are then automatically deleted). in another text we also made it possible for the states to filter these calls so as not to overload the emergency services with calls which are more of a technical assistance matter.
in writing. ‒ on the ecall issue, i voted, like the overwhelming majority of my colleagues, against the amendment that users could manually disconnect the system if they wished. firstly, it seems to me absurd to require car manufacturers to install a system on their vehicles in the name of road safety and then rush to provide for a possible manual deactivation, as if the instrument were in the end just an option. why allow the deactivation of a function which will be made compulsory in future car construction? secondly, it seems to me that the arguments in favour of manual deactivation, in the name of the need to avoid tracing, are contradicted by the content of the negotiated text: on the question of personal data, the european parliament has ensured that they are deleted continuously, totally and permanently, thus excluding any inappropriate storage. i welcome the outcome of our long work on this regulation: from 2018 onwards, in the event of a car accident, an automatic call to the 112 emergency service will be triggered and will send essential data to the emergency services. by speeding up the arrival of rescue workers and providing them with the information they need to carry out their mission, the system will save lives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will make it compulsory for all new car models to be equipped with an automatic emergency call system from 31 march 2018. the ecall in-vehicle emergency system will automatically alert emergency services in the event of an accident, allowing rescuers to arrive at the scene of the accident faster and save lives. the on-board ecall system could reduce the number of road fatalities by around 10%, while 25 700 people were killed in road accidents in the european union in 2014.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to introduce an obligation for car manufacturers to install an ecall in-vehicle system. road safety is thus a priority concern: figures support this, there are more than 100 million road journeys a year in the member states. the aim is to equip all vehicles with interoperable ecall in-vehicle throughout the eu, automatically triggering an emergency call to the 112 number and sending a gps signal to enable rescuers to easily locate the accidented vehicle. it also provides for rules on data protection and privacy, given the nature of the information transmitted by this service. it's the latter privacy provisions that are getting us stuck. the geolocation of the crashed vehicles means that all vehicles can be. another intrusion into people's privacy. in addition, it should be stressed that such a system will have a mechanical impact on the cost of producing the vehicle and thus on the consumer price. imco should instead focus on protecting the economic interests of consumers rather than ensuring its safety by tracking them down. i am voting against this text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has again tried to adopt technocratic directives, motivated solely by ideology. because of the biofuel crops in southeast asia, which lead to deforestation and pollution, our good environmental friends wanted to stop all biofuel crops in europe. but what neither ngos nor environmentalists have understood is that europe does not need to destroy its forests to cultivate land. fortunately, the member states have once again proved that they alone are capable of defending the interests of their citizens. in the council of the european union they succeeded in forcing the rapporteur on this project and the commission to reduce their ambitions. the compromise reached will enable us to save the funds already invested in the first generation biofuels industry and thus save tens of thousands of jobs. by preserving first generation biofuel crops, we will be able to preserve the know-how that will facilitate the transition to advanced biofuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this revision of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives because it does not aim to maintain the existing agrofuels industry by encouraging technological innovation. the proposed amendments to the legal framework for biofuels respond to the commission's concern to increase the share of next generation (advanced) biofuels. the aim is to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to reduce the use of agricultural products by encouraging the use of waste. the commission's objective was to reduce the share of first generation biofuels to 5% of all fuel used in europe. the agreement finally sets this proportion at 7%, which covers the considerable investments made in europe over the last few years. the compromise text covers industries which are currently operating on the model before the revision of the fuel quality directive. the model now favoured, however, is to avoid the use of agricultural land in favour of more innovative technologies.
in writing. ‒ there was no final vote on this text presented at second reading. i therefore voted only in favour of the amendments to protect the investments already made by the agrofuels sector. it would be wrong to give up first-generation biofuels abruptly. many studies, including the ecofys report published on 12 november, challenge the method of calculating indirect changes in soil conditions, which was used by the commission to abruptly amend its 1998 and 2008 directives. if research into advanced biofuels is to continue, it is necessary to take account of the considerable investments already made. i am thinking in particular of our farmers who have relied on these future energies to overcome the serious crisis in their sector. the second generation of biofuels does not yet seem to be able to take over from the first. the 7% ceiling proposed by the council and finally approved by parliament therefore seems to me to be more reasonable because it is more respectful of investments which have been made in the long term, for the long term.
in writing. this recommendation for a compromise between parliament and the council aims to amend the positive law on biofuels in the context of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. for years, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport, the eu has encouraged the production of biofuels from food crops. unfortunately, this policy has not reduced co2 emissions. the eu is therefore trying to revitalise itself by promoting the production of biofuels from non-food sources. it's about time! the commission was considering setting a 5% ceiling for the share of fuel produced from food grains. the council decided on 7%. the compromise emphasises reducing the use of agricultural land in biofuel production in favour of investment in research into more advanced renewable fuels. this compromise is a good compromise and i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. the european union is promoting biofuels, including next generation . it presents this initiative as the main solution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. however, many have criticised the current policy, including the european parliament. the commission presented a legislative initiative in october 2012. the second reading in the european parliament produced a compromise, which is the subject of this text. i voted against this one. indeed, if i am sensitive to environmental issues, they must be tackled effectively, putting aside the ideological presuppositions of the dangerous 'green ayatollahs'.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's draft resolution deals with the adoption of the directives on fuel quality and renewable energies. the original aim of the text was to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to support new types of fuel derived from the use of waste such as biomass. the target of reducing the share of biofuels to 5% of the total share of fuels has been reduced to 7%, preserving the considerable investments made in europe by companies in the sector. in order not to destabilise the biofuels sector, i voted in favour of this text, which is the result of a compromise between the european parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fuel quality and renewable energy directives. in this text we are adapting these two directives to the new environmental characteristics of biofuel production. we did not want to jeopardise the investments already made in the first generations of biofuels. nevertheless, legislation encourages producers and investors to switch to a more environmentally friendly generation of biofuels. i am also sensitive to the effects of indirect land use change. however, the method of calculating these effects is disputed, so i think it is premature to include it in the legislation at this stage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as it is the result of a compromise between parliament and the council on the revision of the european policy on biofuels. i am in favour of sustainable development as long as it is done in accordance with the principle of freedom, and i can only welcome this text which promotes biofuels with a view to reducing greenhouse gases. the directive also advocates a reduction in the use of agricultural land for the manufacture of biofuels and the use of more innovative and farm-friendly technologies.
in writing. ‒ this text aims to define the eu's biofuels strategy, and in particular to encourage operators to use so-called 'advanced' biofuels, which i support. the european commission's initial proposal was too broadly based on taking into account indirect land use changes from biofuels. this factor has not yet been scientifically proven and its estimation is still too risky to be included in this directive. that is why i voted in favour of the text agreed by the legislators, whose moderate approach to the casi/iluc factors seems to me justified at the moment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because if we want to achieve the environmental objectives set for 2020, we must not be without ambition in the transport sector. like the rapporteur, i hope that we can encourage the penetration of advanced biofuels into the fuel market as much as possible. the european union must have an incentive effect on this sector in order to attract investment in return. in my view, innovation in renewable energy and clean fuels will both guarantee a greener european union than its global competitors and create jobs in a sector of the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which raises a fundamental issue for all those involved in biofuels. throughout the negotiations - with my colleagues from the epp group - we have defended a balanced position. our role as meps is not to change direction along the way - as some would like to do - but rather to accompany and encourage a change of direction in order to meet environmental needs but also not to divert the citizens of the european union. i regret, however, that we have not been able to pursue the logic of encouraging the next generation of biofuels without setting a binding target at european level. i am glad, however, that agreement has been reached on the iluc factor. the calculation of this factor on the accounting for effects linked to indirect changes in land use is scientifically disputed and it would have been absurd to incorporate it into the directive as such. the analysis of this factor must be continued, as indicated in the text voted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this revision of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives because it does not aim to maintain the existing agrofuels industry by encouraging technological innovation. the proposed amendments to the legal framework for biofuels respond to the commission's concern to increase the share of next generation (advanced) biofuels. the aim is to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to reduce the use of agricultural products by encouraging the use of waste. the commission's objective was to reduce the share of first generation biofuels to 5% of all fuel used in europe. the agreement finally sets this proportion at 7%, which covers the considerable investments made in europe over the last few years. the compromise text covers industries which are currently operating on the model before the revision of the fuel quality directive. the model now favoured, however, is to avoid the use of agricultural land in favour of more innovative technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it strikes a balance between the need to introduce a significant amount of biofuels into energy consumption and the need to reject an absolutist view on this point, which aims to preserve agricultural land from biofuels altogether.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this project which aims to reduce first generation biofuels (produced from crops on agricultural land). the main reason given is that this activity would result in significant deforestation and pollution. this is true in south-east asia but not in europe where existing agricultural land is used. in the end, a compromise was reached: first generation biofuels should not exceed 7% of final energy consumption in transport by 2020. they will then be gradually replaced by other, more environmentally sound biofuels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this revision of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives because it does not aim to maintain the existing agrofuels industry by encouraging technological innovation. the proposed amendments to the legal framework for biofuels respond to the commission's concern to increase the share of next generation (advanced) biofuels. the aim is to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to reduce the use of agricultural products by encouraging the use of waste. the commission's objective was to reduce the share of first generation biofuels to 5% of all fuel used in europe. the agreement finally sets this proportion at 7%, which covers the considerable investments made in europe over the last few years. the compromise text covers industries which are currently operating on the model before the revision of the fuel quality directive. the model now favoured, however, is to avoid the use of agricultural land in favour of more innovative technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on fuel quality and renewable energy by my colleague nils torvalds, which aims to validate the agreement reached with the council and the european commission. the agreement caps conventional biofuels at 7% in the calculation for the 2020 renewable energy target in transport, reflecting the investments made by the sector. the development of advanced biofuels, which emit less greenhouse gases, will also be encouraged. i welcome the adoption of this report by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the compromise reached in the trilogue on the proposal on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and on energy produced from renewable sources. it is a balanced compromise that protects investments already made while encouraging the development of new, greener fuels.
in writing. ‒ it was a second reading which did not require a final vote, but dominique martin voted for this directive which will limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels.
in writing. ‒ directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources requires a 10% share of energy from renewable sources in transport by 2020. the aim of the commission's proposal is to initiate the transition to a biofuel policy which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions significantly. we know the disadvantages of this alternative to food production. the report therefore aims to limit the use of conventional biofuels, i.e. agrofuels which compete with agricultural products for food, to 6% of total energy consumption in transport. the report also introduces a target of 1.25% for so-called 'advanced' biofuels, such as those produced from algae. the text also proposes that the impact of land use change be taken into account in the overall co2 production balance generated by this new use. i therefore support the progress made in this text, despite its shortcomings, and i vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this revision of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives because it does not aim to maintain the existing agrofuels industry by encouraging technological innovation. the proposed amendments to the legal framework for biofuels respond to the commission's concern to increase the share of next generation (advanced) biofuels. the aim is to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to reduce the use of agricultural products by encouraging the use of waste. the commission's target was to reduce the share of first generation biofuels in the total fuel used in europe to 5%. this is less than the 7% requested by our group, but it still covers the considerable investments made in europe over the last few years. the compromise text covers industries which are currently operating on the model before the revision of the fuel quality directive.
in writing. the european parliament is to vote on a recommendation for a compromise between parliament and the council to amend the positive law on biofuels in the context of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the eu has for years been pushing for the production of biofuels from food crops in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport. but this policy has had a negative effect and has not reduced co2 emissions. the eu is therefore trying to re-evaluate itself by promoting the production of biofuels from non-food sources. the commission was considering setting a 5% ceiling for the share of fuel derived from food grains. finally, the council has set a rate of 7%, which covers the massive investments made in the european union. the compromise emphasises reducing the use of agricultural land in biofuel production in favour of investment in research into more advanced renewable fuels. i think that this is a compromise in the right direction and i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the proposal for a directive on indirect land use change (casi). the agreement aims to encourage the production of next-generation biofuels, which require less agricultural land for their production. the epp group to which i belong fought and won the case for this agreement not to affect the investments made and the jobs created by the production of first generation biofuels.
in writing. ‒ the proposed amendments to the legal framework promoting biofuels in greenhouse gas emission reduction targets respond to the commission's concern to increase the share of next generation (advanced) biofuels. the aim is to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to reduce the use of agricultural products by encouraging the use of waste. the commission's objective was to reduce the share of first generation biofuels to 5% of all fuel used in europe. the agreement finally sets this proportion at 7%, which covers the considerable investments made in europe over the last few years. the compromise text covers industries which are currently operating on the model before the revision of the fuel quality directive. the model now favoured, however, is to avoid the use of agricultural land in favour of more innovative technologies. i think this compromise is well balanced and i therefore vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ energy and climate issues are now at the heart of the union's priorities. the use of biofuels had emerged as a solution for europe's energy supply. however, some agrofuels have been shown to have a harmful effect on the environment. the european parliament voted in favour of the directive on tuesday, which combines and amends two existing directives on fuel quality and renewable energy. i voted in favour of this conciliatory text. the share of biofuels for transport will not exceed 7%. the aim of this directive is not to call into question the investments already made in biofuel research and production, while encouraging the development of a more environmentally friendly generation of biofuels.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today delivered its opinion on the agreement reached with the council on the revision of the fuel quality directive, which is intended to cap the share of 'first generation biofuels' in final energy consumption in the transport sector. these biofuels, derived from food products, have negative effects both on the environment (intensive agricultural production, water pollution by pesticides and fertilizers, massive deforestation, reduction of biodiversity, etc.) and on the socio-economic level (competition for food crops, increase in food prices, impact on local populations, etc.). for all these reasons, it is essential that the european union should set a ceiling on these biofuels. the agreement reached with the council does not go far enough to limit the negative consequences of these biofuels. i therefore decided to abstain on this agreement, because it proposes a 7% ceiling for first generation biofuels (the european socialists proposed 5%). the text also fails to take up parliament's objective of setting the share of second generation biofuels, made from waste and non-edible plants, which are a viable biofuel solution, at 2.5%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which is the real culmination of the negotiations on this complex issue. although it endorsed many compromises with respect to parliament's first reading position, there was an urgent need for a text on the issue of indirect land-use change (ilc), which causes famine and deforestation in developing countries and runs counter to the eu's greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. we approve the cap on the production of first generation biofuels and welcome the inclusion of provisions to encourage the development of advanced biofuels.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which reflects the position of our group. we have, throughout this dossier, maintained a balanced position by not calling into question the investments already made in the sector but by encouraging the development of a new generation of biofuels which are safer for the environment. we also refused to include in this directive a method of calculating the effects of indirect land use change (casi effect), which is scientifically disputed, but we are in favour of further studies in this area. among the important points of the agreement, it is also noted that first generation biofuels should not represent more than 7% of final energy consumption in transport by 2020; this is a very important point, and it is not a question of putting into question the investments already made.
in writing. ‒ based on the finding of the poor 'climate' balance of agrofuels, this revision has the stated objective of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by incorporating the effects of the increasing use of agricultural land for the production of agrofuels called 'indirect land use change criterion' (casi iluc). the amendment also proposed lowering the share of agrofuels in fossil fuels from 10% to 6% (supported by the ep), compared with 5% in the commission's initial proposal. but in reality the 'casi criterion' is not taken into account in the calculation of the 'climate quality' of agrofuels and will only be the subject of a commission report based on the information provided by the producers. that's what i'm talking about! voted by a large majority in the european parliament, this revised legislation is not up to the climate challenges, the member states, including france, bearing a large responsibility in this bad compromise! i therefore voted against this text, in order not to join the eu in sending the wrong signal a few months before the paris climate change conference.
in writing. ‒ this text is merely a 'cosmetic' legislative tool. i welcome the desire to limit the use of plastic bags. but it is clear that the consequence of such a text is the multiplication of the use of vacuum overpackaging, and, consequently, the displacement of the problem without reducing the consumption of plastic in the member states. we should have been rethinking the whole mass consumption model and not just legislating on one consequence of it. finally, this directive is a symbol of a commission which produces excessive texts, which wants to regulate all areas of public life, without respecting the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the treaties. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it encourages users of plastic bags to be more environmentally responsible
in writing. ‒ yes, we need to reduce the consumption of plastic bags, but it is not for the european union to decide what measures to take to achieve this laudable goal. the vote was not on the recommendation but on an amendment rejecting the council's position at first reading.
in writing. this recommendation concerns the reduction of the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags in the union. the text requires member states either to ban the free supply of plastic bags in shops by the end of 2018 or to set a ceiling on the average consumption of disputed bags per inhabitant (90 bags per person per year by 2019 and 40 by 2025). in addition, the member states will also be required to establish appropriate labelling to indicate that the bags are biodegradable, and they will have a multitude of sanctions, such as taxes, to enforce this requirement. while the intention to reduce the environmental problem of bags is initially laudable, the measures envisaged may lead to negative consequences by encouraging the production of water-intensive paper bags or vacuum over-packaging. it will not reduce plastic production in any way... this text is indicative of the attitude which denies the sovereignty of the member states. i therefore abstained on that recommendation.
in writing. the aim of the text is to encourage the reduction of the use of plastic bags. the fact is that while these are used by the final consumer for only a few minutes, the damage to the environment is disastrous. 99 billion plastic bags are used every year in the european union. the text was adopted by the council on 2 march 2015 and an agreement was reached to ask member states to reduce the number of bags used and/or to ensure that they are no longer provided free of charge to consumers after december 2018. i voted against this text because the policy of the european union is not in line with the objectives, which are laudable. it does not take a global view of the problem and treats lightly, from an economic point of view, the fate of nearly 20 000 workers in the sector.
in writing. ‒ the directive aims to reduce the use of plastic bags with a target of 90 plastic bags per person per year by 2020. if the overconsumption of plastic bags is a real problem, it cannot be solved by yet another directive without a comprehensive strategy. it should also be recalled that the implementation of environmental policy as provided for in article 11 of the tfeu must respect the principle of subsidiarity. however, the limitation of the use of plastic bags can be decided by the member states without the european union legislating. the commission must stop its inflationary legislative policy and respect the freedom of the member states to implement environmental protection policies. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a directive aimed at reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic bags with handles. these bags, used daily by a multitude of consumers, are all too often responsible for environmental pollution. in many member states the use of these bags is rationed. for example, in some countries, these bags are no longer free, which leads consumers to reuse them and thus reduce their consumption. the directive proposes that member states adopt various measures to reduce significantly the consumption of plastic bags in their territory. mandatory labelling will also be required for recyclable bags. we must make efforts to preserve our environment. these kinds of measures help to adapt our minds to today's environmental challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which supports a directive which is not only binding on the member states but which also carries the risk of having the opposite effect to the stated objective. the commission's directive aims to reduce the use of plastic bags. this is a laudable objective from the point of view of sustainable development. however, the measures proposed by the commission to achieve this objective seem to me to be inefficient and inconsistent. indeed, removing plastic bags from large surfaces will lead to the development of vacuum overpackaging, which only displaces the problem. the requirements imposed on member states by the directive are also excessive: the reduction of consumption to 90 plastic bags per person per year by 2019; the obligation on member states to make the reduction effective 36 months after the entry into force of the legislation - all requests which do not take account of the specific circumstances of each state, whether in economic, political or administrative terms.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to avoid the consumption of plastic bags up to 50 microns thick and thus reduce their impact on the environment. this is a balanced report which leaves the member states with the choice, in order to achieve their objectives, either to impose binding reduction measures of a maximum of 90 bags per person by the end of 2019 and then 40 bags per person by the end of 2025, or to impose measures prohibiting the free supply of such plastic bags by 31 december 2018 at the latest. i also believe that this report will reduce the significant impact of the consumption of plastic bags on the environment while respecting the principle of proportionality by excluding very light bags and bags for the packaging of fresh food products, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i welcome this text, which recalls the need to reduce the consumption of plastic bags in europe and introduces for the first time binding measures for member states. this is a real step forward in european legislation, which will make it possible to act against pollution and to limit the production of waste. the adoption of this directive, in the run-up to the paris climate conference, is a reminder of the european union's commitment to environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ of the 100 billion plastic bags consumed each year in the eu, almost 8 billion end up in nature. it is a deadly danger to birds and sea animals and a scourge to the environment. this situation is no longer acceptable. the european parliament's second reading vote on the directive on the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic bags now provides for a strict limitation of the use of single-use plastic bags in europe, which is a step in the right direction. the implementation of pilot projects at european level has had a rapid and effective effect, showing that a voluntary environmental management policy at community level can provide a serious and practical response. that is why we must continue in this direction. at the same time, the principle of subsidiarity must apply to implementation at national, or even regional and local level, since it is probably better able to take the measures appropriate to each territory to achieve these objectives. this division of tasks between the union setting the broad guidelines and the authorities of the member states implementing them ensures greater efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this text because it is only a cosmetic legislative tool. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. but it is clear that the consequence of such a text is the multiplication of the use of vacuum overpackaging, and therefore only to move the problem without reducing the consumption of plastics in the union. we should have been rethinking the whole mass consumption model and not just legislating on one consequence of it. finally, this directive is symbolic of a 'ultra-legislative' european commission which wants to regulate all areas of public life without respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the objective of reducing or even eliminating plastic bags is certainly commendable, given the harm they cause to the environment. however, the method proposed by the european commission is highly questionable. only governments can put in place effective policies to replace paper bags and plastic bags.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the recommendation to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags. how can the proposed quotas be implemented? quotas are an improvement for only a few countries. a union-wide measure is therefore inappropriate. why not take up, through incentive measures, the initiatives flourishing in the member states such as the no-packaging shops or the sale of reusable bags? in france, the latter measure has reduced the number of bags distributed by 93% in less than 10 years. the plastic bag culture is the throwaway culture, and biodegradable bags are not a sustainable solution either, suggesting that we could now throw our bags in the wild without consequence, which is not true. if the problem of plastic bags is real and causes dramatic pollution, the commission's proposal is clearly not up to the challenge. a massive rejection would have forced it to revise its text and i regret that meps are satisfied with half measures.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 2 april, i voted in favour of a report to limit the negative impact of plastic bags in europe. with an annual consumption of 200 bags per european citizen, action was urgently needed. we now have the appropriate tools to limit the use of these bags and to spread good environmental practices. member states will now have the choice of setting progressive targets for the reduction of lightweight bags (up to 90 per person per year by 31 december 2019 and 40 by the end of 2025) or making them payable by 31 december 2018. in 2017, the european commission will have to propose labelling and marking measures for the eu-wide recognition of biodegradable and compostable plastic bags.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote against this text because it is only a 'cosmetic' legislative tool. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. but it is clear that the consequence of such a text is the multiplication of the use of vacuum overpackaging, and therefore only to move the problem without reducing the consumption of plastics in the union. we should have been rethinking the whole mass consumption model and not just legislating on one consequence of it. finally, this directive is symbolic of a 'ultra-legislative' european commission which wants to regulate all areas of public life without respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague margrete auken's report on the consumption of plastic bags. the vote was on the validation of the agreement with the council and the commission on the amendment of a 1994 directive on plastic bags. the new legislation will require member states to make lightweight plastic bags payable by the end of 2018 and/or to reduce consumption to 90 bags per capita by the end of 2019. by 2025, annual consumption should be no more than 40 bags per inhabitant, compared with 178 in 2010. the rapid implementation of this directive will help to combat the scourge of plastic bags which pollute our environment. i can therefore only welcome the very wide adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags with handles. the text requires member states to either reduce the number of lightweight plastic bags to 40 per person by 2025 or make them payable from 2018. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the auken report to reduce the consumption of plastic bags in the european union. the report will serve as a basis for the implementation of a directive that will set member states progressive targets for the reduction of lightweight plastic bags (up to 90 per person per year by 31 december 2019 and 40 per person by the end of 2025) and encourage them to make them payable by 31 december 2018. by adopting this report and supporting the implementation of this directive, the european parliament is once again promoting the dissemination of good environmental practice within the european union.
in writing. ‒ this was a second reading, without a final vote. however, dominique martin is against this draft report, which is too limited. even if it is indeed necessary to rethink our use of plastic bags, this project, without a global vision, will apply to only a few types of packaging and will simply move the problem: to compensate for the lack of large-area plastic bags, we will develop vacuum over-packaging, which will not reduce our consumption of plastic.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, 95.5 billion plastic bags (1.42 mt) were placed on the eu market, most of which (92%) were single-use. plastic bags accounted for 73% of the items recovered by trawlers on the tuscan coast in the summer of 2011. the proposal aims to reduce the consumption of these bags. following parliament's recommendations at first reading, considerable improvements have been made to this report. the text thus removes the ambiguity in the terms 'biodegradable' and 'oxobiodegradable' by defining the labelling of the bags. but this report does not address unnecessary packaging, which is the main source of plastic waste. he also ignores the innovative processes that allow the production of plastic from seaweed. and as always, it is about charging consumers (and not distributors) for the use of these plastic bags. green capitalism is a very real deception. it is time to reorient the industry towards eco-design and recycling. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ this text is only a 'cosmetic' legislative tool. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. but it is clear that the consequence of such a text is the multiplication of the use of vacuum overpackaging, and therefore only to move the problem without reducing the consumption of plastics in the union. we should have been rethinking the whole mass consumption model and not just legislating on one consequence of it. finally, this directive is symbolic of a 'ultra-legislative' european commission which wants to regulate all areas of public life without respecting the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this vote concerns the reduction of the use of lightweight plastic bags in the union. the text requires member states either to ban the free supply of plastic bags in shops by the end of 2018 or to set an average consumption ceiling for the bags in question per inhabitant (90 bags per person per year by 2019 and 40 by 2025). the member states will also be required to establish appropriate labelling to indicate that the bags are biodegradable. in order to enforce these injunctions, states may, for example, resort to an arsenal of sanctions such as taxes. although the intentions are initially praiseworthy, the measures envisaged to reduce the environmental problem of bags spilling may lead to negative consequences by encouraging the production of expensive water-based paper bags, or vacuum over-packaging. it would be a zero-sum game that would just shift the problem without reducing plastic production. this text is emblematic of the legislative inflation which the european union is suffering from. finally, it is indicative of an attitude which denies the sovereignty of the member states. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to reduce the consumption of plastic bags in the european union. each european citizen consumes on average 200 plastic bags a year. 8 billion bags end up in the environment of the european union where they can persist for many years. the commission will also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment.
in writing. ‒ this text introduces various restrictions on the use of plastic bags. first, the reduction of the consumption level for 31/12/2019 to 90 plastic bags per person per year; then the obligation for member states to make the reduction effective from 36 months after the entry into force of the legislation; the obligation for the commission to assess the impact of different options to reduce very lightweight plastic bags (less than 15 microns thick) and to present a proposal for a directive if necessary; finally, the commission is required to establish the details of the labelling of the biodegradability or renewability of plastic bags. the consumption of plastic bags is a mass consumption habit that needs to be re-thinked. the commission's policy is not satisfactory. these are provisions which apply to a small sample of packaging, without a global vision, but with the constraints that european nations do not have to accept. and removing plastic bags from the big surfaces will logically increase vacuum over-packaging, and therefore shift the problem, without reducing our plastic consumption. the political effectiveness and ecological relevance are questionable. it is also an emblematic text of a 'ultra-legislative' european commission, without respect for the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. the increasing accumulation of waste is creating more and more problems in terms of waste storage and disposal. as part of the eu's climate objectives, and of a healthier environment and sustainable growth, the union is trying to limit the production of certain wastes. in 2010, the european average was 170 bags per capita. the european parliament voted on tuesday on a proposal to amend directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags with handles. i voted in favour of this text, which will make it possible to limit the production of this type of waste. by 2025, annual consumption should not exceed 40 bags per capita. this text will oblige the states to take appropriate measures to achieve this objective.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendment rejecting the recommendation on reducing the consumption of lightweight single-use plastic bags in the member states. the result of trilogue negotiations, i consider this agreement to be balanced: while it is firm on the european objectives of reducing the use of lightweight plastic bags distributed in supermarkets, it leaves the member states the choice of the binding means to be put in place to achieve them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which obliges the european union to reduce the use of the most common and polluting plastic bags. while the annual consumption of plastic bags per european citizen is currently 200 bags, member states will have to set progressive targets so that the consumption of plastic bags does not exceed an average of 90 bags per person per year by 2019 and 40 by 2025. in parallel with these measures, free plastic bags will be banned from customers by 2018.
in writing. ‒ i campaigned and voted in favour of the report on the drastic reduction of the use of plastic bags. while blue growth is our future, we must protect biodiversity and natural environments to ensure their sustainability. today the environment is threatened by the incalculable amount of waste that will impact it for centuries to come. this problem is one example of the many types of soil pollution that harm biodiversity and of which we are all too little aware. so it's a great step forward to regulate the use of plastic bags the european commission is asked to assess the impact of plastic waste on the environment. it will have to maintain a steady pace of reducing the consumption of plastic bags by 2025. member countries will have to intervene for the non-free use of plastic bags in 2018. while the most polluting bags will be subject to taxes, labelling or marketing bans, all oxobiodegradable plastic materials will be gradually replaced by biodegradable packaging. i note that the fn voted against certain aspects of the text, again demonstrating its retrograde vision.
in writing. ‒ the consumption of plastic bags is a mass consumption habit that needs to be re-thinked. the commission's policy is not satisfactory. firstly, these are provisions which apply to a small sample of packaging, without a global vision, but with the binding provisions which european nations do not have to accept. and removing plastic bags from the big surfaces will logically increase vacuum over-packaging, and therefore shift the problem, without reducing our plastic consumption. the political effectiveness and ecological relevance are questionable. it is also an emblematic text of a european commission that is "ultra-legislative", without regard to the principle of subsidiarity. i vote in favour of rejecting the council's position.
in writing. ‒ this text proposes measures which appear to be irrelevant and ineffective in the light of environmental concerns, and this within a complex framework. it also means a strengthening of european regulation and the control requirements imposed on member states by the european union. an agreement between member states would be more appropriate and successful, while allowing respect for national sovereignty. the commission cannot afford to circumvent the absence of agreement between states by means of supranational regulation. finally, the text does not address the intensification of free trade in international trade which is a major cause of pollution by carbon dioxide emissions. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this text was not finally put to the vote. if it had been, i would have voted against it because it is again a question of imposing a supranational standard on dubious efficiency.
in writing. this report proposes to adopt the council position on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector amending directive 2009/16/ec. the commission's objective is to fill the legal vacuum in international law regarding the lack of regulation on greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport in the imo framework. unfortunately, the union is in total contradiction with this report, since on the one hand it encourages wild globalization and the opening up of frontiers, and on the other hand it complains about the pollution which is the consequence of this policy. i therefore voted against this text, which is neither effective nor fair, since it denies national sovereignty.
in writing. international shipping is the only means of transport not covered by the eu's policy on reducing greenhouse gases. the effectiveness of the european commission's action on this issue is questionable, as it only proposes monitoring and verification of co2 emissions for large ships using european ports. i voted against this because the approach adopted is reprehensible. indeed, i cannot accept the challenge to national sovereignty posed by this intrusion of the european union and the regulatory complexity it encourages for a literary impact that is limited.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's proposal for a regulation concerns the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector. in the absence of an international agreement setting targets for reducing carbon emissions, the commission is seeking to circumvent the rules by imposing monitoring and control of carbon emissions on member states. this supranational drift will have a reduced environmental impact in terms of air pollution. it is a global challenge to unbridled globalisation that must be undertaken if we are to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the shipping sector. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector. this regulation will make it possible to monitor the carbon dioxide emissions of ships. fishing vessels and vessels of less than 5000 tonnes are exempt from this regulation. the administrative burden would have been too great for the latter and would have had harmful consequences. we need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. the european union must be a world leader in this area. however, we need a balanced regulation which allows both to achieve this objective and to take account of the specificities of certain industries such as fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is another attempt by the commission to ignore the sovereignty of the member states. the eurocrats in brussels are seeking to substitute an international standard for the setting of targets for reducing emissions from the international shipping sector. the role of the international maritime organisation would be to define such a standard, that is to say, the member states of that organisation would decide sovereignly on the measures to be put in place. in addition to this infringement of the sovereignty of states, the measures defined by the directive will run counter to the reality of unbridled globalisation which itself guarantees pollution that no mere control or monitoring measure will be able to stem.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to establish a system for the management, reporting and verification of the reduction of carbon emissions from shipping. the european union is setting an example by this text with a view to eventually establishing a global system within the international maritime organisation (imo). this is a balanced ratio, since it limits the scope of the legislation to carbon dioxide only and excludes small ships, which, although they account for 40% of the european maritime sector, contribute only 10% of carbon emissions. finally, the report rejects the introduction of a journey reporting system for vessels making several calls a day. considering that this legislation is in line with the international rules of the who and goes even further, while respecting the principle of proportionality and avoiding an excessive administrative burden on the sector, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the adoption of this text will allow for effective monitoring and control of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector. we need to deliver on our commitments under the 2020 energy/climate package, and this text is a concrete step in that direction. it will also have a wide impact, as it will apply to all ships arriving in or departing from a european port. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector. firstly, the text proposes measures which appear to be of little relevance and ineffective in the light of environmental concerns, and this within a complex system. it also means a strengthening of european regulation and the control requirements imposed on member states by the european union. an agreement between member states would be more appropriate and successful, while allowing respect for national sovereignty. the commission cannot afford to circumvent the absence of an agreement between states by means of supranational regulation. finally, the text does not address the intensification of free trade in international trade which is a major cause of pollution by carbon dioxide emissions.
in writing. ‒ since only the member state, of course, can impose sanctions, it seems normal that legislation should fall exclusively into their hands. that is why i refuse to vote for a text which provides for giving more powers to the commission without proposing effective solutions to the problem.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the proposal for a directive of 28 june 2013 aimed to establish a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from the maritime transport sector in order to reduce greenhouse gases from this sector. my priorities have been taken into account, including the exclusion of small vessels, which account for 40% of the sector but less than 10% of emissions, and alignment with international imo standards. this report also avoids reporting that would lead to excessive administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector. firstly, the text proposes measures which appear to be of little relevance and ineffective in the light of environmental concerns, and this within a complex system. it also means a strengthening of european regulation and the control requirements imposed on member states by the european union. an agreement between member states would be more appropriate and successful, while allowing respect for national sovereignty. the commission cannot afford to circumvent the absence of an agreement between states by means of supranational regulation. finally, the text does not address the intensification of free trade in international trade which is a major cause of pollution by carbon dioxide emissions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague josé inacio faria on co2 emissions from ships. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their views on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. i welcome the broad adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation on carbon dioxide emissions for the shipping sector. this recommendation establishes a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from the sector in order to control and work towards their limitation.
in writing. - i vote against it. i am opposed to the desire to impose this agreement on the maritime sector in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions because it does not respect national sovereignty. the consequence of this decision will be to subject the member states. we are, as always, confronted with the european union's desire to establish itself as an international authority through supranational standards. moreover, the objective of reducing carbon dioxide with its control measures is in contradiction with the trade system defended by the european union. this trade based on free trade without any restrictions is incompatible with a desire to reduce emissions, since by definition this kind of trade is "polluting". the commission is not tackling the real problem. no positive results are expected.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this text. this report imposes a supranational standard and ignores national sovereignty and the differences between member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal.
in writing. ‒ this text establishes a necessary system for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions in the field of maritime transport. unfortunately, the proposed system is primarily declarative. but, above all, by treating the various transport sectors separately, it does not allow the implementation of an overall strategy which would include the relocation of the economy and ecological planning of transport by promoting rail and maritime transport. i abstain to denounce the lack of ambition in this text.
in writing. this report proposes to adopt the council position on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector amending directive 2009/16/ec. the commission's objective is to fill the legal vacuum in international law concerning the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in maritime transport, within the framework of the international maritime organisation. once again, the union is showing itself to be a pyromaniac fireman. it feeds international flows, pushing for globalization at every turn (producing on the other side of the world and then importing it to europe), and then complaining about the pollution that results. the text is not only ineffective but also denies national sovereignty. i voted against any excessive regulation at international level which binds member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector. this agreement between the european parliament, the council and the european commission (trilogue) aligns the existing standards with those of the international maritime organisation (imo). it also saves small shipping companies from too heavy an administrative burden, as it excludes from the scheme small vessels, which account for 40% of the fleet but less than 10% of co2 emissions.
in writing. ‒ the faria report recommends voting on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the maritime transport sector and amending directive 2009/16/ec. the starting point for the reasons for this text is the commission's wish to fill the gap in the absence of an international agreement setting targets for reducing emissions from the international maritime sector within the framework of the international maritime organization and binding on the member states. this circumvention is therefore a method of integrating european regulatory systems and normative construction at international level. moreover, the objective of reducing carbon dioxide emissions from the maritime sector only requires monitoring and control of emissions, with the possibility of penalties taken by the member state, whereas the very logic of unlimited and intense international trade is a significant cause of pollution. the text does not respect national sovereignty and is not likely to be effective in reducing air pollution. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ in the face of growing concerns about global warming and the depletion of the ozone layer, the union is trying to legislate more to encourage member states to limit and reduce their production of environmentally harmful gases. on tuesday, the european parliament adopted the regulation on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector, amending the current directive 2009/16/ec. this proposal, which i supported, aims to control emissions of this gas more closely, while taking account of the realities and constraints of this economic sector. small vessels, which account for 40% of the sector but less than 10% of emissions, are excluded from this agreement. in addition, actions entailing additional administrative burdens, such as mandatory reporting, were not included.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this text on emissions from shipping, which aims to impose the regular deferral, from 2018, of co2 emissions from this sector, which were previously excluded from any reduction target. without specific action, they could increase sharply in the coming years: we therefore encourage the european union to anticipate and promote the establishment of a global agreement by the international maritime organization. the final compromise is coherent, as it provides for the deferral of co2 emissions from the largest shipping companies, which are responsible for 98% of emissions, without being unnecessarily burdensome for the companies concerned.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the introduction of new rules to monitor co2 emissions from ships from 2018. the legislation covers vessels of more than 5000 gross tonnes, regardless of the country in which they are registered. shipping is the only transport sector not covered by the eu's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. this legislative breakthrough establishes a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying co2 emissions in the shipping sector. we must cooperate with our international partners to define an ambitious global agreement. i want to congratulate this initiative but these rules must be applied to the plan for fair competition in the environmental field. i also regret that some of my liberal colleagues abstained in this important vote on the future of our emissions regulations. parliament to these rules, the european union must finance research and innovation for alternative propulsion modes.
in writing. ‒ i oppose the desire to impose this agreement on the maritime sector in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions because it does not respect national sovereignty. the consequence of this decision will be to subject the member states a little more. we are, as always, confronted with the european union's desire to establish itself as an international authority through supranational standards. moreover, the objective of reducing carbon dioxide with its control measures is in contradiction with the trade system defended by the european union. this trade based on free trade without any restrictions is incompatible with a desire to reduce emissions, since by definition this kind of trade is "polluting". the commission is not tackling the real problem. no positive results are expected. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this text was not finally put to the vote. if it had been, i would have abstained because of the lack of clarity on the actual content of the indicators. is gdp still relevant as a measure of prosperity? should it remain the main objective of economic policies? what are the alternative indicators? what about the unemployment calculation?
in writing. the aim of this text is to adopt reliable statistics and harmonised definitions at european level. it is intended, for comparative purposes, to address statistical gaps and the heterogeneity of definitions in the member states and to guarantee the independence of the national statistical institutes in order to avoid known statistical manipulations. the text also makes it possible to increase the accessibility of data in the interests of transparency. nevertheless, while it may be in the right direction, some measures seem to me to be abnormal, such as the possibility of inspections in the member states by european officials and the possibility of fines in the event of incorrect statistics. this desire for transparency must not be at the expense of the sovereignty of the nations. finally, this text on statistics does not propose new statistical models of harmonization as for gdp or the calculation of "well-being". bhutan invented the "gross national happiness" (gnp), why not also look (apart from the above anecdote) at a modernized indicator? so, following his remarks, i decided to abstain on that point.
in writing. ‒ statistics are an indispensable basis for monitoring public policies. in view of the suspicions about their reliability, the aim of this report is to strengthen the independence of eurostat and the various national institutes and to harmonise the various statistical measurement tools. however, even if institutional management will make it more difficult to manipulate figures or produce erroneous data, questions about the content of the indicators will always remain. for example, is the indicator "gdp" still relevant for measuring the degree of prosperity of a country? what about the ecological footprint linked to gdp growth? in the absence of any substantive reflection on the content of the statistical tools, i abstained on this text.
in writing. - i preferred to abstain on this text. i am in favour of a stricter framework for statistics in order to avoid political manipulation of them, which is unfortunately a common practice in france. i therefore support certain provisions of this report: it is legitimate to require the professional independence of the statistical authorities, just as it is desirable that control should be exercised over the commission, which is responsible for european statistics via eurostat. however, i reject the possibility of inspection visits to the member states, which is, once again, an attempt by the european authorities to monitor sovereign nations, or even to lecture them as if they were bad pupils. the statistical institutes should remain under the control of the national courts.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to review the existing legal framework governing the european statistical system, in particular in terms of governance and the independence of the appointment of the director-general of the european statistical office eurostat. considering that the independence and integrity of the work of statistical services must be guaranteed in all national democracies and within the european union, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. european citizens and their governments must be able to rely on statistics. i voted for this text, which is in favour of guaranteeing independent statistics at the level of the european union and all the member states. i would urge the member states to adopt without delay legislation allowing inspections in the national statistical institutes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because there are still too many uncertainties about the future of statistics at the level of the european union and, above all, the contours of national statistics, in this respect, remain ill-defined.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on european statistics. the proposed amendment to the existing regulation is an essential element in strengthening the reliability of european statistics. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report amends a european regulation which strengthens the independence of the european (mainly eurostat) and national statistical services to address the fraud and manipulation of statistics recently observed. the report recommends that european statistics be produced in all economic and social fields and not just for the data needed for budgetary surveillance under the stability pact. but the text also gives the commission stronger powers to investigate possible statistical manipulation by member states are much more questionable, as are the european fines envisaged. applied in the context of the troika's austerity plans, these new powers of investigation and sanction could seriously undermine the sovereignty of states. the trilogue took account of some of parliament's requests to clarify the roles of the european and national institutions, but without going back on the powers given to the commission. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ statistics are an essential tool for guiding public policies. their presentation is often made difficult at european level by the lack of harmonisation. the desire expressed by the regulation to have unified, comparable and accessible statistics should be welcomed. it is likely that penalties should have been provided for in the event of manipulation, but the definition of such an offence remains quite subjective. europe will also not spare a substantive debate on the content of indicators such as gdp or the unemployment rate and whether they remain relevant.
in writing. the aim of the text put to the vote is to adopt reliable statistics and harmonised definitions at european level. it aims to remedy the statistical gaps and the heterogeneity of their definitions in the member states, for comparative purposes, and to guarantee the independence of the national statistical institutes in order to avoid the statistical manipulations known, for example, in greece. it is also a question of increasing the accessibility of data, in the interests of transparency. nevertheless, while this approach may be a step in the right direction, some measures are close to unjustified interference, such as the possibility given to european officials to carry out inspections in the member states, with the possibility of fines in the event of erroneous statistics. while the objective of reducing the manipulation of statistics is a good one, it must not be at the expense of the sovereignty of the member states. nor does it question the relevance of statistical indicators such as gdp, which are widely criticised in academic literature. nor is there any discussion of a more relevant indicator of 'well-being'. it is a global reflection that must be carried out, not a reform with constant definitions. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved this text on the revision of the legal framework governing european statistics to enable them to better reflect developments in the world economy, in the particular context of improving the coordination of economic policies within the eu.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to achieve harmonised statistics throughout europe, with the hope that this will make them more reliable. nevertheless, the choice of criteria is already a political choice and it is well known that the figures will always remain interpretable and manipulable. i am not convinced that these measures will be implemented to ensure greater reliability of data and i therefore prefer to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ manipulation of statistics will always remain, but the underlying supervision, coordination and publicity may make it more difficult. the specific content of the indicators, which is not the subject of the report but is obviously linked to the objectives pursued, also remains. is gdp still relevant as a measure of prosperity? what are the alternative indicators? the same remarks can be made about unemployment and how to measure it. i choose to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ this multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and fisheries once again imposes heavy technical measures that are overwhelming fishermen. scientists have expressed negative opinions about this plan. the current exploitation of stocks would be incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield. it is also a distortion of the democratic aspect of the european institutions. the european parliament delegates many technical measures to the commission, which is contrary to the principle of regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the chairman of the committee on fisheries, alain cadec, even speaks of an institutional conflict. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to preserve our allied resources.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text which, despite interesting proposals, is aimed at imposing too many constraints on fishermen and too many delegated acts which undermine the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report essentially states that because of overfishing; the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat are in danger. there are two problems. firstly, in particular on the current exploitation of stocks which is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield according to the opinion of several scientists. secondly, there is the question of the delegation to the commission of many technical measures which excludes the states from decision-making despite the principle of regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the national front had asked the committee on fisheries, in an amendment, that the commission take scientific studies into account before adopting technical measures to avoid fishermen being overwhelmed by heavy restrictions and regulations. i abstained on that report.
in writing. ‒ overfishing is a serious threat to the baltic sea stocks of cod, herring and sprat. various scientific studies have established that the intensity of exploitation of the stocks concerned is not sustainable and does not guarantee the renewal of stocks. however, member states are not sufficiently involved in the stock management process and parliament, by asking to vote on many delegated acts, is relinquishing its role as co-decision-maker and controller of decisions taken by the commission. finally, it seems that the commission will not wait for the conclusions of the most recent studies before implementing restrictions and regulations which will weigh heavily on fishermen. that is why i abstained on the vote on this text.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual management plan for the baltic sea is the first management plan of the reformed common fisheries policy and thus a model for future management plans on which fisheries resources management is based. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of a plan which implements the objectives it has set itself, including the management of stocks above maximum sustainable yield. in setting mortality targets we must rely on the latest available scientific advice. in the future negotiations i will defend the prerogatives of parliament, which has the right to take part in the decision-making process on all aspects of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this text because, while it raises a real problem overfishing leading to shortages the plan proposed by the commission is in total contradiction with the objective of maximum sustainable yield. the commission is also increasingly giving itself prerogatives in technical measures relating to fisheries, despite the principle of regionalisation of the common fisheries policy. what 's the result ? not only are the member states losing control over the decisions concerning this policy, but also, as alain cadec, chairman of the european parliament's fisheries committee, has pointed out, the european commission is thus exposed to a real institutional conflict with the elected representatives of parliament. i therefore welcome the adoption of the amendment tabled by the patriotic members jean-marie le pen and sylvie goddyn which will curb the commission's appetite on this subject by asking it to take account of the most recent scientific studies before adopting technical measures.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at the establishment of the multiannual baltic management plan for cod, herring and sprat. this is the first multiannual plan to be drawn up under the new common fisheries policy. this report enables the commission to propose targeted mortality targets aimed at regulating the catch rate in accordance with the latest available scientific advice and allowing exploitation of stocks above the maximum sustainable yield. it should be noted that the negotiations were difficult because of an institutional conflict concerning the legal basis of the report, with the council wishing to decide alone in the context of a special legislative procedure, while parliament and the commission advocate a codecision procedure, and a judicial procedure is under way. considering that it is important, both in substance and form, that the political agreement reached in the last parliamentary term and ratified by the vote on the reform of the common fisheries policy be respected and that the new powers of the european parliament in the field of fisheries policy be exercised under the lisbon treaty, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of an innovative approach to the management of cod, herring and sprat stocks, which takes into account the interactions between species. this puts us on the path to exploiting stocks in a way which respects the baltic sea ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ in voting on the multiannual plan for the baltic cod, herring and sprat stocks and the fisheries exploiting these stocks, the european parliament for the first time took a position on the deployment of the tools of the new common fisheries policy, as reformed in 2014. today, europe's fisheries, including those in the baltic sea, are threatened by overfishing. the plan must therefore aim at organising a more sustainable fishery in the baltic sea, in order to preserve this important economic sector of the european union in the medium and long term. the plan also recognises and preserves traditional fishing techniques, which will allow small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing to continue under good conditions.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat fishing in the baltic sea. many technical measures are delegated to the commission, which is a problem for many members. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against fraud is based on the principle of proportionality. in fact, an amendment by the national front, which was accepted by the committee, calls on the european commission to take more account of recent scientific studies in order to adapt quotas more precisely to the reality on the ground.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, in general, the power given to the commission in the field of control of fisheries resources is exorbitant compared to the prerogatives of parliament.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat fishing in the baltic sea. many technical measures are delegated to the commission, which is a problem for many members. mr cadec, chairman of the committee on fisheries, said there was an inevitable institutional conflict between the commission and parliament, as parliament was giving up too many of its prerogatives to entrust them to the commission, despite the principle of regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp). in fact, an amendment by the front national, which was accepted by the committee, calls on the commission to take more account of recent scientific studies in order to adapt quotas more precisely to the reality on the ground.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jarosław wałęsa on the multiannual plan establishing a framework for the management of the baltic cod, herring and sprat stocks. this plan, based on the most recent scientific advice, should allow for the sustainable exploitation of stocks, thus guaranteeing livelihoods for fishermen, and i hope that agreement will be reached quickly with the council and the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides for a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. the plan should ensure the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and enable the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks. in addition, the plan should contribute to the conservation of other marine species such as plaice, bearded whale, flounder and turbot. finally, it must help to stop discards and reduce bycatch.
in writing. - abstention from voting. the report aims to put in place measures to combat the effects of overfishing which are endangering the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. it is a fact that is based on scientific studies. that said, we criticise the fact that parliament is once again taking steps to deprive the member states of the possibility of participating in decision-making. however, the common fisheries policy (cfp) provides for the management of fisheries problems to be regionalised. moreover, the measures taken represent an accumulation of constraints for fishermen. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products. which would have had the benefit of consistency. parliament decided otherwise. for these reasons i abstain.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin abstained on this vote. although progress has been made since the initial text, this plan still places too many constraints on fishermen. the member states are being excluded from the decision-making process in favour of the european commission, which we cannot support.
in writing. ‒ cod, herring and sprat are important fisheries in the baltic sea. while a management plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea has been in place since 2007, stocks of herring and sprat are not yet subject to a management plan. this situation hinders the sustainable management of these fisheries and does not guarantee the stability of fishing opportunities for fishermen operating in these fisheries. the proposal aims to establish a management plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat. the plan should ensure the sustainable exploitation of these stocks and ensure the stability of fishing opportunities, while ensuring that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific information regarding interactions within stocks, between stocks and with other elements of the ecosystem and the environment. it is regrettable that other marine species (turtles, seagulls, etc.) are not included in this plan, but this initiative is aimed at a better conservation of resources. i vote for
in writing. ‒ many technical measures are delegated to the commission, which is a problem for many meps. mr cadec, chairman of the committee on fisheries, said there was an inevitable institutional conflict between the commission and parliament, as parliament was giving up too many of its prerogatives to entrust them to the commission, despite the principle of regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp). in fact, an amendment by the front national, which was accepted by the committee, calls on the commission to take more account of recent scientific studies in order to adapt quotas more precisely to the reality on the ground. i abstained.
in writing. the report warns of the risks of overfishing of the endangered baltic cod, herring and sprat stocks. two problems should be noted. the first concerns the current exploitation of stocks, which is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield according to several scientists. the second concerns the delegation to the commission of many technical measures, which excludes the states from decision-making, despite the principle of regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp). however, an amendment was tabled in the committee on fisheries to require the commission to take scientific studies into account before adopting technical measures, in order to avoid fishermen being overwhelmed by heavy restrictions and regulations. i therefore abstained from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the multiannual management plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea. these three species account for more than 94% of the catches in the baltic. the management plan takes account of the biological interactions between the three species (caviar being predatory on the other two) and will allow for a more balanced and sustainable management of the stocks.
in writing. ‒ many technical measures are delegated to the commission, which is a problem for many meps. the president of the committee on fisheries, mr cadec, referred to an inevitable institutional conflict between the commission and parliament on this subject. the text also places far too many constraints on fishermen and does not take sufficient account of their difficulties. this plan is symptomatic of a parliament which is giving up its prerogatives to the commission and excluding the states from decision-making, despite the principle of regionalisation of the common fisheries policy. however, since the situation of fish stocks is really very worrying, i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ at a time when certain marine species are in danger of disappearing and illegal fishing is still very active, the union must regulate and control this activity in order to ensure transparent fishing and protect certain endangered species. the european parliament adopted the walesa report on the management plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. i voted in favour of this text. the proposal aims in particular to concentrate fishing activities on these three species in the baltic sea. the plan is flexible and will be adapted annually to the fishing possibilities in order to better regulate and manage stocks.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to put in place measures to combat the effects of overfishing which endanger the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. it is a fact that is based on scientific studies. that said, we criticise the fact that parliament is once again taking steps to deprive the member states of the possibility of participating in decision-making. however, the common fisheries policy (cfp) provides for the management of fisheries problems to be regionalised. moreover, the measures taken represent an accumulation of constraints for fishermen. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products. which would have had the benefit of consistency. parliament decided otherwise. for these reasons i choose abstention.
in writing. ‒ this legislative proposal proposes to establish a framework for the management of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, i.e. to implement a policy for the recovery and maintenance of the species, setting an optimum catch volume that can be taken each year without threatening the reproduction of the species. i welcome the adoption of the amendment calling for the targets to be met by 2015 and at the latest by 2020. however, more needs to be done and global action is needed to maintain the balance of the ecosystem. i therefore regret that the amendments proposed by my group concerning both by-catches and the possible effects of overfishing on other species (birds, marine mammals, etc.) have been rejected. the opposition between the interests of fishermen and the ecosystem is artificial and fruitless. the interests of fishermen lie in the protection of marine resources and the ecosystem and therefore require responsible fishing that respects the rights of fishermen and takes account in particular of smallholders. the rapporteur has asked for the text to be referred back to committee to take account of the most recent scientific advice, and i support that.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to introduce a landing obligation from 1 january 2015 in order to eliminate discards of fish. although this is an important measure, the proposed regulation is still vague as to the fate of those who have landed. it also imposes heavy material and financial constraints on fishermen. this will require many extra trips, but it will not be possible to use these fish discharges for human food. moreover, since landed catches are counted against quotas and unintended catches to be landed have to be physically separated from other catches, this would consequently increase the working time and the cost of fishermen's work. the proposal for a regulation would, in particular, classify any breach of the obligation as a serious infringement. because of the increased weight of vessels, these measures pose a risk to fishermen in case of rough seas. small-scale fishing is likely to collapse under the weight of these constraints. it would therefore appear that, although the intention of this proposal for a regulation is legitimate, the measures envisaged are far too restrictive and difficult for fishermen to implement. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which only proposes to amend the landing obligation and not to abolish it, which i consider necessary because it places too heavy a burden on fishermen, especially small-scale fishermen.
in writing. ‒ this cadec report on the landing obligation proposes to phase out discards by introducing a landing obligation on 1 january 2015 with a very limited tolerance still being granted to fishermen in the years to come. the proposal does not specify the fate of the fish landed, although the desire to reduce the number of fish discarded is welcome. the proposal also places heavy financial (landed catches) and material constraints on fishermen (e.g. unintended catches to be landed must be physically separated from other catches). finally, it puts fishermen at risk by increasing the weight of vessels, which can be dangerous in rough seas. the priority should be to improve the selectivity of fishing methods and gear and i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the common fisheries policy introduced fundamental changes to the rules in force until now in 2013, with an obligation to land catches. the committee on fisheries considered that the changes introduced by the european commission's draft regulation, known as the 'omnibus', should be strictly limited. the obligations impose heavy constraints on fishermen, in particular financial and material constraints. in addition, there is a parallel market inherent in this landing obligation. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation aims to phase out discards by introducing a landing obligation from 1 january 2015. the aim of reducing fish discards, although laudable, should not be used as a pretext for adopting an incomplete regulation, particularly on the fate of waste landed by fishermen. the proposal for a regulation also places new constraints on fishermen: financial constraints, since landed catches will be charged against quotas; and material constraints, since landed catches will have to be physically separated from the catches that can be consumed. rather than considering exclusively binding legislation, it would have been better to support the improvement of fishing techniques. as such, the renewal of equipment, made necessary by these new regulations, should be covered by the emff. i voted against this text in support of the fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the implementation of the landing obligation follows the adoption of the reform of the common fisheries policy which entered into force on 1 january 2015. this landing obligation shall be phased in in accordance with the timetable laid down in article 15 of the basic regulation of the common fisheries policy. the landing obligation is a generous measure, but it is very difficult to implement, especially for semi-coastal and small-scale fisheries. it is therefore necessary to make fishing gear more selective. the annual reports on the implementation of the landing obligation will make it possible to analyse the impact of this measure and the difficulties faced by the operators. the non-compliance with the landing obligation will become a serious offence as from 1 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to vote against this proposal for a regulation which, while pursuing a laudable objective, offers bad solutions to the problem of excessive discards of fish. in addition to the shortcomings of this proposal for a regulation, which does not specify the fate of the fish landed, i believe that it presents solutions which are far too restrictive for fishermen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing opportunities for the stocks concerned are not exceeded. another unjustified financial constraint is that fishermen will have to make extra trips to land, which means more fuel used, longer working hours and, ultimately, more work. in addition to these obligations, the landing solution is not without risks for the fisherman since it will necessarily lead to an increase in the weight of the vessels, which can be dangerous in case of rough seas.
in writing. ‒ this report is one of the last milestones in the implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy, as voted in the previous parliament. the purpose of this text is to introduce progressively from 1 january 2015 to 1 january 2019 the obligation to land or the prohibition to discard all catches. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources in the baltic sea. the proposal is intended to improve the management of the marine environment and to improve the quality of fisheries resources. considering that this text respects the political agreement reached when the reform of the common fisheries policy was voted, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the landing obligation under the new common fisheries policy aims to avoid the large discard of catch left for dead, which undermines the viability of stocks. mandatory landing will also allow for better monitoring of the actual quantity of catches in fishing areas. like the rapporteur, i support the idea of an omnibus regulation applying only to the fishing areas affected by the landing obligation in 2015 and not for the following years, in order to remain consistent with the whole of the legislation on this subject. finally, while i support compulsory landing, i am mindful that it must be accompanied by measures to find outlets for non-marketable catches, to avoid waste, and to control those outlets.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to introduce a landing obligation from 1 january 2015 in order to eliminate discards of fish. although this is an important measure, the proposed regulation is still vague as to the fate of those who have landed. it also imposes heavy material and financial constraints on fishermen. this will require many extra trips, but it will not be possible to use these fish discharges for human food. moreover, since landed catches are counted against quotas and unintended catches to be landed have to be physically separated from other catches, this would consequently increase the working time and the cost of fishermen's work. the proposal for a regulation would, in particular, classify any breach of the obligation as a serious infringement. because of the increased weight of vessels, these measures pose a risk to fishermen in case of rough seas. small-scale fishing is likely to collapse under the weight of these constraints. it would therefore appear that, although the intention of this proposal for a regulation is legitimate, the measures envisaged are far too restrictive and difficult for fishermen to implement. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which does not sufficiently protect the fisheries sector, which can put fishermen at risk, because this report exposes fishermen to a risk: that of increasing the weight of vessels. this is a dangerous factor in case of rough seas. it also weakens the already highly stressed small-scale fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to introduce a landing obligation from 1 january 2015 in order to eliminate discards of fish. although this is an important measure, the proposed regulation is still vague as to the fate of those who have landed. it also imposes heavy material and financial constraints on fishermen. this will require many extra trips, but it will not be possible to use these fish discharges for human food. moreover, since landed catches are counted against quotas and unintended catches to be landed have to be physically separated from other catches, this would consequently increase the working time and the cost of fishermen's work. the proposal for a regulation would, in particular, classify any breach of the obligation as a serious infringement. because of the increased weight of vessels, these measures pose a risk to fishermen in case of rough seas. small-scale fishing is likely to collapse under the weight of these constraints. it would therefore appear that, although the intention of this proposal for a regulation is legitimate, the measures envisaged are far too restrictive and difficult for fishermen to implement. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr alain cadec, on the implementation of the landing obligation. the landing obligation is a welcome measure aimed at improving resource conservation, but its implementation remains complicated. i therefore welcome the introduction of provisions which will make it possible to assess the real economic and social impact of the implementation of this measure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the landing obligation. article 15 of the common fisheries policy regulation imposes an obligation to land all catches. this obligation will be phased in between 2015 and 2019. as a result, fishermen will have to land all unmarketable bycatches. as the landing obligation is a fundamental change for fisheries, the report stressed that 2015 would be a test year for its implementation.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to give additional time to the introduction of the new obligation for fishermen to land all the fish they catch. previously, fishermen simply landed the fish for resale, discarding those that did not fit the size or species criteria. these releases were causing a considerable waste of the resource at a time when the signs of its sustainability are becoming more alarming. i therefore supported the end of these practices in a previous vote, while at the same time wishing for greater flexibility for sinners. small-scale fisheries must be given time to implement this necessary reform, but without jeopardizing an already delicate financial balance. by allowing for a gradual adaptation to the obligation to stop discharges by 2019, this report meets these two imperatives: the preservation of resources and the maintenance of activity in often peripheral areas. on the other hand, concessions to fishermen must not allow them to abuse them and thus nullify the effects of this regulation, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report obliges fishing vessels to stop unintentionally discarding fish caught in trawls and to keep them with the obligation to land them. there is a risk that species may be caught when they are protected, or that the fish caught are too young. until now, these fish were thrown into the sea. although this measure appears to be a measure of good sense, parliament's decision raises a number of problems: these catches will reduce the fishing quotas authorized, force fishermen to make more trips and therefore increase their costs (fuel, crew salaries, etc.), and make adjustments to the vessels since incidental fisheries will have to be separated from the others. it would have been desirable for the same purpose if parliament had been more concerned with the possibility for fishermen to equip themselves to improve selectivity (filets calibrated according to the targeted fish). it's not. it is important, however, that this new obligation be accompanied by financing which is not provided for. for all these reasons, i am voting against the parliament's proposal.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. while it is commendable to want to phase out discards, this will place heavy constraints on fishermen: catches will be charged against quotas, fishermen will be forced to make additional trips to land and unintended catches to be landed will be separated physically, which will be a financial and material loss. i could only vote against such a project.
in writing. ‒ one of the main objectives of the current reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) is to phase out discards in all fisheries in the european union (eu) by introducing a landing obligation. i voted for the cfp when it was adopted with two reservations, one concerning the necessary modernisation of the fleet for obvious reasons of safety at sea and energy efficiency of vessels, the other concerning zero-emission, which i formulated as follows: [...] if the so-called 'zero-remove' measure is intended to increase the selectivity of fishing gear, it must not condemn the sector. its application will have to be conducted by fisheries, on a case-by-case basis, after feasibility and socioeconomic impact studies. the report proposes, without going back on the mechanism, a gradual and adapted implementation of the landing obligations, which i vote for.
in writing. ‒ priority should be given to improving the selectivity of fishing methods and gear rather than introducing an overly complex landing obligation. it should have been provided that the equipment renewal would be supported by the emff, since these new equipment are made necessary by european regulatory developments. a derogation or, at least, an extended transitional period should also be granted to small-scale fisheries to give them time to adapt. as it stands, the vote on this proposal for a regulation is therefore negative.
in writing. this report on the landing obligation aims to phase out discards by introducing a landing obligation from 1 january 2015. a low tolerance will be granted to fishermen in the coming years. the commitment to reduce the discarding of fish is commendable, but it is regrettable that there is no clarity on the fate of the fish landed. in addition, fishermen would also be subject to significant financial (landed catches) and material constraints (e.g. unintended catches to be landed must be physically separated from other catches). the overloading of vessels can also be a hazard to fishermen in rough seas. i therefore voted against this report, considering that more should be done to encourage the improvement of the selectivity of fishing methods and gear.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the obligation to land all fish caught. this obligation, which will come into force gradually between 2015 and 2019, is in contradiction with several european regulations which therefore needed to be amended.
in writing. the 2013 cfp reform introduces fundamental changes to the rules applicable to fisheries: in particular, an obligation to land all catches is imposed; this means that fishermen will have to land all unintended catches which are not marketable either because of the lack of a quota or because they are smaller than the minimum conservation reference size. the compromise reached strikes a good balance between the need to implement this landing obligation and the need to give fishermen some flexibility to implement this obligation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ reducing fish discards is a laudable objective, but the proposed regulation, even if amended in the right way, is still far too restrictive for fishermen, who bear all the obligations and risks. thus, landed catches are charged against quotas and cannot be used for human consumption (hence a lower selling price); fishermen will have to make additional trips to land; any breach of the landing obligation will be classified as a serious infringement (points system). in addition, unintended catches to be landed must be physically separated from other catches and the increase in the weight of vessels is a hazardous factor in rough seas. i therefore oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ illegal fishing is now a major problem in the eu, threatening the survival of several marine species. the union must act to protect biodiversity and preserve these endangered species. in view of the urgency of the situation, parliament adopted the report on the implementation of the landing obligation by a very large majority. i am glad that i voted in favour of this key measure. however, while the proposed landing obligation will make it possible to contribute to the conservation of marine resources, it remains difficult to implement and monitor. therefore, parliament agreed to a gradual review, with a system of sanctions only applicable from 2017. the text also stresses the responsibility of member states to put in place adequate measures to manage landed catches which cannot be marketed.
in writing. ‒ this report obliges fishing vessels to stop unintentionally discarding fish caught in trawls and to keep them with the obligation to land them. there is a risk that species may be caught when they are protected, or that the fish caught are too young. until now, these fish were thrown into the sea. although this measure appears to be a measure of good sense, parliament's decision raises a number of problems: these catches will reduce the fishing quotas authorized, force fishermen to make more trips and therefore increase their costs (fuel, crew salaries, etc.), and make adjustments to the vessels since incidental fisheries will have to be separated from the others. it would have been desirable for the same purpose if parliament had been more concerned with the possibility for fishermen to equip themselves to improve selectivity (filets calibrated according to the targeted fish). it's not. it is important, however, that this new obligation be accompanied by financing, which is also not provided for. i therefore vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is simply a means of bringing croatia into conformity with the agreement signed between the eec and russia on 24 june 1994 and which entered into force on 1 december 1997, which aims to promote trade and investment between the eu member states and the russian federation, a commercial and strategic cooperation which we support. i therefore voted in favour of a protocol which therefore incorporates croatia into this agreement by virtue of its accession to the eu on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the conclusion by the council of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement with russia. signed on 24 june 1994 between the eec and russia, this agreement entered into force on 1 december 1997: it is intended to promote trade and investment between the eu member states and the russian federation, a cooperation which we support, as we have constantly stated throughout the ukrainian crisis, while others have tried to damage our relations with our russian partners. the protocol in question simply incorporates croatia into the agreement, so it was not yet a party due to its recent accession to the eu on 1 july 2013: it was therefore a logical compliance.
in writing. ‒ the report gives parliament's approval for the council to conclude, on behalf of the eu, a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing an ec-russia partnership. this agreement aims to promote trade and investment between the eu member states and the russian federation, agreements which i support. the protocol is simply intended to integrate croatia into the agreement, as it joined the eu on 1 july 2013. i remain, however, committed to the sovereignty of nations in trade agreements, but since the agreement is in place and with a strategic partner for europe and france, i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this formal text is not of substantial interest. it gave parliament's consent to the council concluding, on behalf of the european union, a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing an ec-russia partnership. the aim of this agreement is to promote trade and investment between the member states of the union and the russian federation. this protocol is only a means of bringing it into line, and i am in favour of it. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ croatia has been a member of the european union since july 2013, and international treaties concluded by the eu with third countries must now take account of this new accession. this report takes account of the accession of croatia to the partnership and cooperation agreement with russia. i voted in favour of this text, which approves this change in protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives parliament's approval for the council to conclude, on behalf of the eu, a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing an ec-russia partnership. this agreement, signed between the eec and russia on 24 june 1994 and which entered into force on 1 december 1997, aims to promote trade and investment between the eu member states and the russian federation, a commercial and strategic cooperation which i support. the protocol in question therefore consists of integrating croatia into this agreement by virtue of its accession to the eu on 1 july 2013, which is a logical conformity procedure. i am, however, opposed to the principle of comprehensive partnership agreements, even if they are of a commercial nature, being implemented under the auspices of the eu, and i would like us to give priority to bilateral agreements which are in the interests of each member state.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to authorise the ratification of a protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between russia and the european union, which, signed in 1994, has established privileged economic relations since 1997 between the two parties to the agreement. the purpose of the amending protocol is to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union in 2013. as croatia is a full member of the european union, it is necessary to gradually amend the european conventional acquis in this respect. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. as a new member state, croatia needs to align its position with that of the other 27 member states with regard to the union's external partnerships. that is why i voted for this text, which allows for a review of relations between croatia and the russian federation, with which the european communities have concluded a partnership and cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is simply a follow-up to the agreement between the eec and russia signed on 24 june 1994 and which entered into force on 1 december 1997, which aims to promote trade and investment between the eu member states and the russian federation, a commercial and strategic cooperation which we support. i therefore voted in favour of a protocol to include croatia in this agreement as a result of its accession to the eu on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it follows a logical sequence. croatia joined the union on 1 july 2013, and it would appear to be abnormal for croatia to exclude itself from the eu-russia trade agreements. however, we can only regret that this type of agreement, as a rule, infringes national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is simply a means of bringing croatia into conformity with the agreement signed between the eec and russia on 24 june 1994 and which entered into force on 1 december 1997, which aims to promote trade and investment between the eu member states and the russian federation, a commercial and strategic cooperation which we support. i therefore voted in favour of a protocol which therefore incorporates croatia into this agreement by virtue of its accession to the eu on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation of my colleague, mr gabrielius landsbergis, on the partnership agreement with russia. the report aims to take account of croatia's accession to the eu and to integrate it into the partnership agreement so that it can benefit from its provisions. the recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. i supported the recommendation on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. since that agreement was concluded before the enlargement of the union to include croatia, it is therefore necessary to add a new protocol to the agreement to take account of that accession.
in writing. - i'm voting for it. the house also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. we think this is a good initiative. the national front believes that this cooperation strengthens an already established relationship with a highly strategic country.
in writing. ‒ vote in favour of this report. the aim of this agreement, which has been in force since 1 december 1997, is to promote trade between the member states and russia. the new protocol we are voting on today is aimed at integrating croatia, which has recently joined the eu. we are in favour of this commercial and strategic cooperation between the eu and russia, and this integration of croatia is a logical follow-up that we can only support.
in writing. ‒ an eu-russia partnership agreement has been in place since 1997. in order to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu, the memorandum of understanding should be amended to include croatia. i am opposed to free trade agreements and to any new accession to the eu, and i can only oppose this amendment, even if it is purely technical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is simply a means of bringing croatia into conformity with the agreement signed between the eec and russia on 24 june 1994 and which entered into force on 1 december 1997, which aims to promote trade and investment between the eu member states and the russian federation, a commercial and strategic cooperation which we support. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the objective of this report is to approve the protocol and the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a ce-russia partnership, which were concluded by the council on behalf of the union. this agreement is intended to encourage trade and investment between the member states of the union and the russian federation, which i support. however, the sole purpose of that protocol is to update the list of parties to the agreement by including croatia, which acceded to the union on 1 july 2013. i remain committed to the sovereignty of the member states in trade agreements, but the agreement is already in place, and with a strategic partner for europe and france. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical text concerning the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this text is merely an extension to croatia of a partnership agreement between the european community and russia. this is therefore a logical alignment after croatia's accession to the european union. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ currently, relations between the european union and russia are very tense, particularly with regard to the ukraine issue. as part of the deepening of relations between these two partners, the european parliament voted in favour of the recommendation on the ec-russia partnership and cooperation agreement, to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. i voted in favour of this recommendation and i believe that it is necessary for russia to recognise the entire territory of the union in order to be able to develop and consolidate our diplomatic and economic relations in the future if the geopolitical context allows it.
in writing. ‒ parliament wants to include croatia, which has been a member of the european union since 1 july 2013, in an agreement signed on 24 june 1997 on trade and investment between the member states and russia. we think this is a good initiative. the national front believes that this cooperation strengthens an already established relationship with a highly strategic country. croatia joined the european union on 1 july 2013. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text, which was put to the vote of the european parliament, was to revise the protocol establishing an ec-russia partnership to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. this vote was therefore in fact a purely legal formality. but such a vote is also borderline absurd, since it completely ignores the international context and the tense relations between the european union and russia, at least because of the situation in ukraine, even though anti-russian speeches in this house sometimes border on hysteria. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. like all the members of my group, i oppose this warmongering obsession and this one-sided view of the conflict, which resembles the cold war and the primitive anti-communism that the right wing of the house in particular is promoting. this is not the way to find a solution to the ukrainian conflict. quite the opposite. the gue/ngl calls more than ever for the resumption of dialogue with russia, without complacency or hostility, taking into account the violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms committed by all the belligerents.
in writing. ‒ it is a process of bringing together european higher education systems. its main objective is to support mobility and internationalisation and to make the standards and quality of the various higher education systems compatible and comparable. it thus aims at a harmonisation of european higher education which goes hand in hand with its anglicisation. the englishisation it promotes challenges the european spirit of equality of cultures and languages. it also marks the commodification of higher education, which it sees only through the prism of economic growth. it would also allow the european institutions to have more and more control over the institutions, reducing their intellectual autonomy. excessive englishisation and the interference of the european union in the name of allegedly advantageous financial aid are contrary to the authenticity of french higher education. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because the bologna process has enabled greater student mobility in europe. i call the same success in the future for the apprentices.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process is a process of rapprochement of european higher education systems that began in 1998 and led to the creation in 2010 of the european higher education area, comprising some 50 states. this process results in the de facto commodification of higher education, a decrease in social justice, and a loss of intellectual autonomy of institutions. higher education is seen only through the prism of economic growth. and it is to make students more "competitive" on the world labour market that the bologna process leads to a forced anglicisation of higher education. that is why i am against it.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the bologna process is a text that does not meet the expectations of the world of higher education and research or of young europeans looking for a job. while the european union should trust its academics to provide the best possible training for students and thus offer them better chances of finding a job, this report seeks to force the university to adapt to ultra-liberal globalisation in the utmost disregard for the freedoms of academics and research teachers. moreover, i can only point out the cynicism of this text which seeks to promote academic exchanges through the erasmus+ programme in particular, while at the same time the european union deprives swiss students of this device in retaliation for the swiss people's favourable vote in the referendum limiting mass immigration in february 2014. the european union must not use university exchanges as a means of exerting pressure on sovereign peoples, which is very positive for students. for all these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. i voted against this text on the implementation of the so-called bologna process which aims, since 2010, at cooperation between 47 countries in the field of higher education. it should be noted that the committee on culture and education, of which i am an alternate member, considers that there is still a great deal to be done in the context of the bologna process.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process aims to bring european higher education systems closer together. it was launched in 1998 and led to the creation of the european higher education area in 2010. it aims to make europe a competitive area in the global knowledge economy, the european area of higher education. the bologna process formalizes the anglicization and commodification of higher education. i voted against this text, in favour of france's withdrawal from this process.
in writing. ‒ if we want to create a single market consistent with fundamental freedoms such as the free movement of persons and the freedom of establishment, we must move towards the recognition of the academic degrees of the member states. the bologna process, introduced in 1999, brings a degree of harmonisation to higher education. this harmonisation was necessary in view of the increasing mobility of european students mainly in the erasmus and erasmus+ frameworks. a student must be able to receive an equivalent quality of education in whatever european country he studies in. i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the implementation of the bologna process.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of mrs lybacka's report on the follow-up to the implementation of the bologna process for several reasons. education is a foundation of european citizenship. this report emphasises this crucial point, demonstrating that higher education is a source of growth and job creation and an indispensable tool for reducing inequalities, combating youth unemployment and boosting social inclusion. i have always supported the bologna process. it is still essential for the modernisation of higher education institutions and systems. however, the implementation of reforms needs to be deeper, in particular to facilitate better recognition of qualifications in europe by universities as well as by employers. i am convinced that mrs lybacka's report is in line with this perspective and will make it possible to take further steps towards consolidating the european higher education area.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution because i dispute the beneficial effects of the bologna process on french higher education. the bologna process aims to bring european higher education systems closer together. in addition to my opposition to this desire for uniformity which is at the expense of national peculiarities in education, the mechanisms of approximation have led to an anglicisation of teaching to the detriment of francophonie, one of the treasures of the french cultural heritage. the philosophy underlying the bologna process is that of the commodification of education: higher education is now thought of in terms of competitiveness, competition, performance, and this at the expense of the student's learning of real intellectual autonomy.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the european parliament's position on the yerevan ministerial conference, which should make it possible, in the context of the bologna process to create a european area of higher education, to strengthen cooperation on quality assurance of european university systems and to maximise the use of available funds. considering that new funding models are needed for a strategic area such as the convergence of european education and university sectors and that links between the bologna process, the juncker plan and the europe 2020 strategy should be developed, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. parliament voted in favour of the creation of a european higher education area, as part of the bologna process launched in 1999. since then, much progress has been made. however, new challenges are facing higher education institutions and students. as the report states, at the end of 2014, there were five million unemployed people under 25 years of age in the union. the report is therefore moving in the right direction in emphasizing the vital work to improve the employability of young people.
in writing. ‒ it is a process of bringing together european higher education systems. its main objective is to support mobility and internationalisation and to make the standards and quality of the various higher education systems compatible and comparable. it thus aims at a harmonisation of european higher education which goes hand in hand with its anglicisation. the englishisation it promotes challenges the european spirit of equality of cultures and languages. it also marks the commodification of higher education, which it sees only through the prism of economic growth. it would also allow the european institutions to have more and more control over the institutions, reducing their intellectual autonomy. excessive englishisation and the interference of the european union in the name of allegedly advantageous financial aid are contrary to the authenticity of french higher education. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. - i voted against this text. i think france should withdraw from the bologna process. it is actually a process towards the uniformity of minds and intelligence. a forced march towards the anglicisation of higher education and i cannot accept it. the european union, instead of enriching itself with the culture of the different member countries, prefers to despise them. parliament should consider changing its motto in due course to: united in diversity... anglo-saxon
in writing. i fully supported the report by my colleague lybacka, as she defends the emergence of high quality higher education as a key factor in cultural, economic and social development, which is essential for the growth of our economies. the continuation of the bologna process should thus make it possible to develop mobility, encourage internationalisation and improve employability, and make the european higher education area more attractive. this message will need to be heard by the higher education ministers at the yerevan meeting, so that more efforts are made to support countries that are having difficulty implementing it. we need the commitments made to finally translate into action to relaunch the process, make it more efficient and define its future objectives in a context which has changed considerably since its inception. with 5 million young people under 25 unemployed, the question of the mismatch between qualifications and labour market needs is more important than ever.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. i recognize the positive intentions behind the bologna process, namely to make europe a competitive area in the global knowledge economy by harmonizing european education systems. however, from the very beginning, this process was open to more than fifty countries, not all of which should have been part of it. one of the consequences of this process was the anglicisation of the education systems, thus tending towards the uniformity of the world, in defiance of national identity and the french language. and above all, the bologna process aims at the commodification of higher education and the loss of intellectual autonomy of studies and university institutions. france is therefore suffering from this process which undermines the equality of cultures and languages in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms krystyna lybacka, on the implementation of the bologna process, an important element of european higher education policy. the text calls for better use of the funds allocated and for its place to be strengthened in the europe 2020 strategy and in the investment plan presented by jean-claude juncker. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the implementation of the bologna process. this process has led to the creation of a european higher education area and has made significant progress possible, in particular in the implementation of quality assurance systems for education systems, the recognition of diplomas and the attractiveness of higher education in europe. however, much remains to be done, particularly in terms of adapting education systems to the needs of the labour market.
in writing. - i vote against it. the bologna process is a process aimed at creating the european higher education area. the lisbon convention has changed the objectives of the programme. france is a victim of this process because it affirms the officialisation of the anglicisation of higher education. this is because the european union considers the language barrier to be one of the obstacles faced by students. but the bologna process will also have several negative consequences: the commodification of higher education, a decrease in social justice, a loss of intellectual autonomy of institutions because higher education is seen only through the dogma of economic growth. here again there is a desire to homogenize what does not correspond to the project of higher education defended by the national front. the europe of cultures and languages is in danger of suffering. that is why i am voting against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment in europe is at record levels. the bologna process, which started in 1999, has not yet produced results. its real objective is not to provide access to quality higher education for all but to liberalise universities. the applications of bologna in france, such as the 2007 pécresse law, the law on the freedoms and responsibilities of universities, known as lru, are the direct application of the principle of the knowledge economy. knowledge becomes a commodity like any other. the crisis and budgetary constraints are the perfect excuse for the call for private investment in education. the report itself notes budget cuts in education and the increase in youth unemployment but does not question the options chosen as a possible cause of this. he does not even dispute the erasmus+ reform which, among other things, provides for a bank loan mechanism that leads to students becoming indebted from the very beginning of their studies. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i recognise the positive intentions behind the bologna process, namely to make europe a competitive area in the global knowledge economy by harmonising european education systems. however, from the very beginning, this process was open to more than fifty countries, not all of which should have been part of it. one of the consequences of this process was the anglicisation of the education systems, thus tending towards the uniformity of the world, in defiance of national identity and the french language. and above all, the bologna process aims at the commodification of higher education and the loss of intellectual autonomy of studies and university institutions. france is therefore suffering from this process which undermines the equality of cultures and languages in the union. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in our opinion, france must withdraw from the bologna process, which risks leading to a massive anglicisation of education in the european union, thus calling into question the european spirit of equality of cultures and languages to the detriment of french. in the name of the harmonization of curricula and the competitiveness of our higher education in the context of a globalized educational market, france and the french are victims of this process which formalizes the anglicization of higher education.
in writing. this report on the implementation of the bologna process is far from the aspirations of the world of higher education and research, nor does it meet the expectations of young people in the various countries of the union who expect more jobs. the report aims to adapt the university system of the member states to globalisation, following the american model, instead of leaving it to university staff to train students to the best of their ability. we cannot, on the one hand, deplore the unprecedented rate of unemployment among young people, who are forced to resort to flexicurity measures to delay their entry into the labour market, and, on the other hand, impose austerity which creates economic depression. the union has therefore chosen to hide its face by increasingly promoting erasmus+ and thus creating a transnational and european elite. this is however ridiculous when we know that the union deprives swiss students of this provision as a result of the will of the swiss people, expressed by direct universal suffrage, to challenge the dogma of free movement with the countries of the union. this is the manifest hypocrisy which justifies my voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the monitoring of the implementation of the bologna process. this process, which started in 1999, aims to create a european higher education area, including better quality of teaching, greater mobility and mutual recognition of university degrees. since 1999, all 47 current members of the bologna process have implemented major reforms in their higher education systems. the report calls for an evaluation of the bologna process to give it a new lease of life, for example by further developing the mobility of university staff and teachers.
in writing. launched in 1999, the bologna process was intended to create the conditions for better mobility in education, greater competitiveness and adjustment to the labour market. this report, although it does have some positive points such as the demand for more investment in education and the objective of greater student mobility; the report also contains criticisms, such as the predominant role of business in education, the fact that studies should follow the interests of the markets, and the lack of solutions to the problem of inequalities in access to education. my group proposed a very comprehensive alternative resolution, but it was not adopted. for these reasons i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process is a process of rapprochement of european higher education systems that began in 1998 and led to the creation in 2010 of the european higher education area, comprising some 50 states. it aims to make europe a competitive area in the global knowledge economy, the european area of higher education. since the lisbon convention the objectives of the programme have evolved. the first is to harmonise national systems by making a general division into 3 cycles and, since 2007, to introduce quality assurance in both institutions and training. the objectives of lifelong learning and mobility are constantly recalled. the bologna process aims at the commodification of higher education, a reduction in social justice, a loss of intellectual autonomy of institutions and a possible shortening of certain studies. the harmonization of european higher education goes hand in hand with its anglicisation. in my opinion, france must disengage from this process which, in the name of pseudo-advantages, will lead to an anglicisation, thus calling into question the equality of cultures and languages. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ in the face of growing youth unemployment and the lack of opportunities faced by young graduates in the eu, it is important to rethink and reinvigorate european policies targeting young people, such as the bologna process on higher education in the eu. the european parliament adopted the report on the monitoring and implementation of the bologna process, stressing the importance of adapting and updating this measure in the light of the union's new context and challenges. i voted in favour of this text. while this process is successful in many respects, it needs to be revised and improved to better align it with the eu 2020 objectives and the new juncker commission.
in writing. ‒ the bologna process is a process of rapprochement of european higher education systems that began in 1998 and led to the creation in 2010 of the european higher education area, which comprises some 50 states. it aims to make europe a competitive area in the global knowledge economy, the european area of higher education. the objectives of lifelong learning and mobility are constantly recalled. france and the french are victims of this process which is making the anglicisation of higher education official. the european union recognises many obstacles to student mobility, technical obstacles but also language barriers. these barriers were never discussed in the evaluation reports, especially the language barrier. the bologna process aims at the commodification of higher education, a reduction in social justice, a loss of intellectual autonomy of institutions and a possible shortening of certain studies. higher education is seen through the lens of economic growth and its harmonization goes hand in hand with its anglicisation. in our opinion, france must withdraw from this process which calls into question the european spirit of equality of cultures and languages.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on these new provisions concerning cinema in the digital age. some of the provisions are simple adaptations to technological developments, such as the digitisation of cinemas, distribution or accessibility and visibility of films. however, other elements do not correspond to the national interests of the member states in cultural matters as the national front would like. the rule for vat (destination country applies) has been revised, but this is still not the case for audiovisual creation. the current legislation allows vod services to apply the legislation of the country of origin of the service and not that of the country of destination. netflix, for example, is based in the netherlands and is therefore not obliged to contribute to the financing of the creation in france.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the evolution of cinema in the european union, focusing on the process of digitalisation of cinemas, the distribution, accessibility and visibility of films, funding and support programmes for the audiovisual sector (creative europe), the media and the means of promoting and distributing films produced in the european union (such as the lux prize). the inventory of practices and data on the european film industry in this report shows, for example, that in the eu 62.5% of cinema releases are european films and 19.8% american films. on the other hand, 32.9% of the cinema admissions were european films and 65.1% american films. in addition to its shortcomings, this report aims to promote a 'european cinema' by bypassing the tax problems posed by video-on-demand platforms (vàd or vsd in french, vod in english) for the member states, the most emblematic example of which is the american netflix: now having its european headquarters in the netherlands, it escapes the obligation to contribute to the financing of creation in france.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the evolution of cinema in europe, focusing on the process of digitalisation of cinemas, the distribution, accessibility and visibility of films, funding and support programmes for the audiovisual sector (creative europe), film and media education and instruments for the promotion and dissemination of european films (such as the lux prize). it is also envisaged to amend the audiovisual media services (ams) directive, which repeals the 1989 fms directive, in order to adapt to the changes taking place in the audiovisual media landscape. apart from the fact that the motion for a resolution on the report promotes european culture and identity (lux prize, etc.), whereas i believe it is for the member states to promote their national cultures, it is too partial, particularly on taxation and the audiovisual media. for example, the current legislation allows vod services to apply the legislation of the country of origin of the service and not that of the country of destination (example netflix). i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. the text on european cinema in the digital age acknowledges the emergence of new actors, upsetting the traditional tripartite relationship . this is a vital fact which has also been noted by the committee on culture and education, of which i am an alternate member. i abstained on a text which seeks to regulate a moving substance, at a time when new technologies are appearing, which often render obsolete texts which have only just entered into force.
in writing. ‒ this report examines the evolution of cinema on the european continent, and in particular the digitalisation of cinemas, distribution, accessibility and visibility of films. it is first of all an inventory of practices and data on european cinema. the proposal to amend the directive concerns in particular the participation of vod platforms in the promotion of european works by means of a financial contribution. however, nothing has been done on the financial contribution for audiovisual creation. that is why i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ european cinema is a guarantee of quality. however, it could increase its competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world by adapting to the challenges of today. the digital platform would significantly increase the accessibility of european cinema both in terms of the creation, distribution and financing channels. we must also promote european initiatives such as the lux prize. the lux prize allows certain european films to be shown as well as their quality. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr wenta's report, whose proposals help to boost the competitiveness and diversity of the european film industry. the improvement of the overall effectiveness of the film financing instruments in the union requires a better balance between public funds for the promotion and distribution of european cinematographic works. moreover, the competitiveness of the european film sector must now be based on the development of innovative services, such as legal video-on-demand services, as they improve the cross-border availability and distribution of european films, but also combat piracy effectively. finally, to maintain the diversity of european cinema, it is necessary to encourage the large-scale digitisation of european films and their increasing availability in original subtitled versions. by making all these points political priorities in his report, mr wenta lays the foundations for better exploiting the potential of the european film industry.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain on this report which, while it makes good observations on the practices of the european film sector, is in the direction of a standardisation of cultural practices in europe via the field of cinema. in addition to this attempt to encroach on the prerogatives of the member states which must be able to promote their own cultural identities, the motion for a resolution proposes incomplete solutions to the issues and challenges of the film industry. the report supports the sma directive in the taxation chapter. however, the latter provides for a financial contribution by vod services to the financing of cultural creation. a good idea a priori, except that current legislation allows vod services to apply the legislation of the country of origin of the service, not that of the country of destination. once again, even the best ideas of the european legislator are being spoiled by his lack of common sense.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to support the european commission's strategy to increase the audience for european films and highlights the need to improve the overall effectiveness of funding instruments to foster the competitiveness and diversity of the sector. whereas, in order to safeguard its cultural specificities, the european union must put in place effective financial instruments, such as the creative europe programme under its media strand, to help european cinema to promote the potential of its industry, to promote promotion and cross-border distribution and to reach a wide range of audiences; for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. creativity cannot flourish without an adequate cultural funding programme. in this respect, i welcome the importance of the creative europe programme and the media sub-programme. these are programmes of financial support for the cultural sector, in particular the audiovisual sector, which form part of the european union's multiannual financial framework. despite this, more efforts are needed to support the distribution of european films. we are fortunate in europe to have a vibrant and varied cultural and creative life, which must be brought up to date with the digital age, while respecting the work of creators.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on these new provisions concerning cinema in the digital age. some of the provisions are simple adaptations to technological developments, such as the digitisation of cinemas, distribution or accessibility and visibility of films. however, other elements do not correspond to the national interest in cultural matters as the national front would like. the rule for vat has been revised (the country of destination applies) but this is still not the case for audiovisual creation. the current regulations allow vod services to apply the legislation of the country of origin of the service and not that of the country of destination. netflix, for example, is based in the netherlands and is therefore not obliged to contribute to the financing of the creation in france.
in writing. cinema faces immense challenges such as non-european competition and digitisation. that is why i supported this report, which proposes a balanced approach, emphasizing the importance of actions to promote and distribute works, particularly through subtitling or the development of co-productions. european and national support for small independent cinemas should be encouraged so that they can acquire the necessary equipment for the distribution of digital productions. moreover, if the legal online offer of european films is to be diversified and increased in order to support the film industry, the issue of copyright must remain a priority. member states should increase their support for travelling festivals and cinemas and take advantage of the media and creative europe programmes. finally, i believe that film education must be developed in order to bring about a film culture which moves away from a purely consumerist approach to works.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on these new provisions concerning cinema in the digital age. some of the provisions are simple adaptations to technological developments, such as the digitisation of cinemas, distribution or accessibility and visibility of films. however, other elements do not correspond to the national interest in cultural matters as the national front would like. the rule for vat (destination country applies) has been revised, but this is still not the case for audiovisual creation. the current legislation allows vod services to apply the legislation of the country of origin of the service and not that of the country of destination. netflix, for example, is based in the netherlands and is therefore not obliged to contribute to the financing of the creation in france.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague bogdan wenta's report on cinema in the digital age. the report takes stock of the situation of european cinema and puts forward a number of proposals to strengthen the viability of european production, which is very important but which is having difficulty circulating outside the union. the report proposes a better distribution of aid to european cinema in order to increase the chances of success of the film once it is released, and supports the european commission's initiative to organise a european film forum so that the actors in the chain can discuss how to make their sector more efficient. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on european cinema in the digital age. the report takes stock of the situation in the european film industry in order to identify its strengths and weaknesses, particularly in relation to american competition. the report thus calls primarily on the member states to increase public funding to support the distribution and promotion of european films abroad. i welcome that vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the wenta report, which envisages a greater focus on european public funding for culture to expand the audience for european films, in particular by providing increased support for promotion, international distribution and co-production. the adoption of this report by the european parliament is an important step towards a better distribution of european films throughout the world. it will play a greater role in promoting europe's cultural diversity internationally.
in writing. - i abstained. the report covers the evolution of cinema in europe, in particular the process of digitisation of cinemas, distribution, accessibility and visibility of films. the funding and support programmes for the audiovisual sector (creative europe), film and media education and the instruments for the promotion and dissemination of european films are also among the topics discussed. it tells us that european aid is mainly devoted to production (69%) while in the united states the effort is directed towards marketing and that 62.5% of the cinema releases are european films, 19.8% american films. the aim is to amend the audiovisual media services directive to adapt it to the changes currently taking place in the audiovisual media landscape. i criticise the fact that there is no reference to the defence of national cultures but essentially to european culture. the tax aspect and the contribution to national creations are also too little developed.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. the proposal promotes a european culture and identity, whereas it is for the member states to promote their own culture. moreover, although progress has been made, the current legislation still appears to be inadequate for video on demand (vod) services which apply the legislation of the country of origin (where their head office is based) rather than that of the country of destination.
in writing. ‒ 1,500 european films were screened in our cinemas in 2014, twice as many as american films. but the number of viewers is inversely proportional. the report proposes that the marketing and promotion of european films can be improved, in particular by increasing public funds, but if the us is copied too closely, the risk is that smes in the distribution sector will be weakened in favour of a few giants who will make laws. in the context of the economic boom in video-on-demand, the report nevertheless calls on providers such as netflix, which are based in countries with less stringent regulations, to contribute financially to the european film industry. it also calls for better digitisation of films, as only 1.5% of this heritage is currently digitised. the report also calls for european harmonisation, including on european vat on such goods, with a view to the revision of the audiovisual media services directive, without specifying on what basis. up or down ? i'm not convinced by these fancy proposals. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ some of the provisions are simple adaptations to technological developments, such as the digitisation of cinemas, distribution or accessibility and visibility of films. however, other elements do not correspond to the national interest in cultural matters as the national front would like. the rule for vat (destination country applies) has been revised, but this is still not the case for audiovisual creation. the current legislation allows vod services to apply the legislation of the country of origin of the service and not that of the country of destination. netflix, for example, is based in the netherlands and is therefore not obliged to contribute to the financing of the creation in france. i abstained.
in writing. the wanta report is concerned with the development of cinema in europe. it focuses on the process of digitalisation of cinemas, distribution, accessibility and visibility of films, as well as on funding methods, programmes to support the audiovisual sector (creative europe), film education and the media, and instruments for the promotion and dissemination of european films (such as the lux prize). the amendment of the sma (audiovisual media services) directive repealing the 1989 tsf directive, in view of the changes taking place in the audiovisual media landscape, is also being considered. this report only superficially addresses issues relating to taxation or audiovisual media and promotes a nearly uniform european culture and identity (through the lux prize), whereas i believe that member states should promote national cultures more. another criticism is that the current legislation allows vod services to apply the legislation of the country of origin of the service and not that of the country of destination (example netflix). i therefore abstained from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on european cinema in the digital age. the text takes stock of the situation of the european film sector in the digital age in order to identify its strengths and weaknesses. the report also proposes that the commission should take into account the specific needs of the film industry in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of european films.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which emphasises the promotion of the cultural aspect of the film industry. the report respects the diversity of european cinema and suggests increasing public funding for the development, promotion and distribution of films, particularly in smaller towns and less developed regions. it also promotes digitisation as a means of preserving heritage; film festivals; and better availability of subtitles.
in writing. ‒ this report is primarily an inventory of practices and data on the european film sector. the aim is to amend the audiovisual media services (ams) directive, which repeals the 1989 fms directive, in order to adapt to the changes taking place in the audiovisual media landscape. apart from the fact that the motion for a resolution on the report promotes european culture and identity (lux prize, etc.), whereas i believe it is for the member states to promote their national cultures, it is still too partial, particularly on taxation or the audiovisual media. the rule for vat (destination country applies) has indeed been revised, but this is still not the case for audiovisual creation. the current legislation allows vod services to apply the legislation of the country of origin of the service and not that of the country of destination. for example, netflix is based in the netherlands and is therefore exempt from the obligation to contribute to the financing of creation in france. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ in the era of globalisation and standardisation of the arts and cultural media, it is important to defend european culture. the european parliament adopted on tuesday the wenta report on the film industry and the new challenges it faces. i support this report and stress the importance of adapting our european sector and making it more competitive at european and international level. the european cinema must make greater use of the new digital means of distribution in order to reach a wider european audience.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the evolution of cinema in europe, focusing on the process of digitalisation of cinemas, the distribution, accessibility and visibility of films, funding and support programmes for the audiovisual sector (creative europe), film and media education and the instruments for the promotion and dissemination of european films. the motion for a resolution on the report promotes a european culture and identity whereas we believe that it is up to the member states to promote their national cultures. it is also too partial, particularly on taxation and audiovisual media. i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i support the kostinger report. in the absence of a common forestry policy, the forestry strategy allows for the coordination and coherence of european and national policies relating to forestry. through its guidelines and recommendations to member states, the strategy enables the sustainable exploitation and management of europe's forestry resources, which are often poorly and under-exploited and potentially rich in growth and jobs. it is an important lever for biodiversity and in the fight against global warming. i am glad to see one of my amendments in this report, calling on the commission to analyse the difficulties in supplying roundwood from the downstream sector and to help this sector. in recent years, exports of unprocessed bulk to certain third countries, such as china, for processing into furniture and then reselling in the european union have been a problem: in the absence of market regulation, many european primary processors have found themselves without supplies and faced higher prices for the raw material they need to run their businesses, putting them in difficulty, with the consequences that we know for employment in rural areas.
in writing. ‒ this text promotes a new strategy for forests. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is not for the european union to legislate in this area, as the envi committee admitted in its opinion, although it asked the commission to 'take its lead in promoting a sustainable forestry policy'. the new strategy does not take into account concrete measures, since, although the "environmental value" is often emphasized, nothing is proposed in this area. the french wood sector is doing well, although it would benefit from better governance at national level: again, the community level is inadequate. protectionist measures would nevertheless be a means of protecting french and european timber, but of course the commission cannot envisage such a policy. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it embodies a subtle blend of the environmental and economic vocation of european forests.
in writing. ‒ the report is characterised by the desire to increase the eu's role at the expense of the member states and welcomes the commission's desire to strengthen its power over forestry. this 'new strategy' does not take into account the trade problems linked to the abuses of certain third countries, in particular with regard to the export of logs to china and the re-shipping of processed products from china to the eu, to the detriment of the wood sector in the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the resolution, which recalls the autonomy of the member states and their legitimacy in pursuing their forestry policy, states that the implementation of the eu's forestry policy should take several years and be coordinated, and that parliament's opinion should be taken into account. the report also places too much emphasis on the environmental value of the forest at the expense of its economic value, ignoring proposals to defend the sector, particularly the problem of exporting raw wood abroad and importing processed products with higher added value. this problem is particularly acute in lorraine. the report also makes no mention of any proposals for protectionism in the face of unfair competition from china in the sector. the ecological impact of these round trips should also be questioned since they are in contradiction with the environmental value and the desire to reduce greenhouse gases. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the european union is one of the largest exporters and consumers of wood products in the world. in september 2013, the european commission presented a renewed strategy for wood, which was intended to "improve the coherence of forest-related measures and allow for synergies with other sectors related to forest management". i voted against this text, which strengthens the competence of brussels to the detriment of france and which does not take account of the trade problems linked to the abuses of certain third countries, in particular china.
in writing. ‒ forestry policy is a matter for the sovereign competence of the member states. the european commission is trying to get its hands on forestry. moreover, the text emphasizes only the environmental value of forests and neglects the economic value. the resolution does not deal with the problem of exporting raw wood abroad and reimporting processed products with a higher added value. moreover, nothing is proposed on the necessary protection at european level against china's aggressive practices and no reflection is made on the carbon impact of these exports and re-imports. however, it is this priority which would justify better coordination of forestry policies at european level. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new european strategy for forests and the forestry sector. it is undeniable that we need a european strategy in this area for all the security and environmental aspects. we do indeed need some coherence between the european union and the member states in the forestry sector. however, forestry and forestry policy must remain a national competence, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which once again shows the inconsistency, indeed dishonesty, of the european institutions when it comes to respecting the competence of the member states. the rapporteur begins by acknowledging the prerogative of the member states in matters of forestry policy, but there is a clear desire to give the commission greater weight in this area. the proposals are not consistent even on the substance of the report. on the one hand, it is argued that the primary objective is the environmental aspect, but on the other hand, it is refused to consider what measures could be taken to curb the massive import of chinese products, especially wood, while these imports are causing the environmental cost to explode! in this sense, nothing is proposed to protect our companies from asian competition, not even at european level.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to establish a clear position of the european parliament on what the european strategy in the forestry sector should be. the text voted on here is balanced. it calls for a holistic approach to forest-related issues at european level, while preserving the principle of subsidiarity, since forest management plans are still drawn up at national level to take account of the geographical specificities of each forest area. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. parliament wanted to emphasise the importance of forestry, the third largest employer in europe after the metal and food industries. the european union, through its policies on the environment, agriculture or rural development, can have an influence on the forestry sector hence the need for a european strategy on this subject. i would like to stress, however, the importance of the principle of subsidiarity in forest management, as emphasized in the report.
in writing. ‒ with the vote on the report on a new eu strategy for forests, the forestry sector and the wood industry, the european parliament calls on the member states to work towards sustainable forest management, to promote the efficient use of their raw materials and to increase the competitiveness of the forestry industry, which provides many jobs. forests play an important role in the protection of biodiversity. member states should design their forestry policy by implementing actions to use this lever in the forest-forest sector and more particularly in the field of reforestation, improved forest management and optimized use of products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of sustainable forest management and ensures better coordination and communication of eu policies related to forestry. the report also raises the difficult question of the plundering of european forest resources by emerging countries. it was time for europe to address this crucial issue for the economy of this sector. while all the other major countries introduced export taxes to protect their industries, no action was taken at european level. so i think this report is a step in the right direction for the future of our forests.
in writing. ‒ i support the kostinger report. in the absence of a common forestry policy, the forestry strategy in question allows for the coordination and coherence of european and national policies relating to forestry. through its guidelines and recommendations to the member states, the commission is helping to develop and manage sustainably europe's forestry resources, which are often poorly and under-exploited and potentially rich in growth and jobs. it is an important lever for biodiversity and in the fight against global warming. i am glad to see one of my amendments in this report calling on the commission to analyse the difficulties in supplying roundwood. in my region of limousin, there is a real bleeding of our bulk which is exported to china by traders outside limousin. consequences: there is an increase in the price of the raw material for our primary and secondary processing enterprises; the added value does not remain and benefit the territory; the future of some units is threatened in the short term, as they cannot supply themselves, with deadly consequences for local employment.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this text promoting a new strategy for forests. first of all, because it is not for the european union to regulate in this area, as the envi committee admitted in its opinion, although it asked the commission to 'take its leading role in promoting a sustainable forestry policy'. moreover, the new strategy makes little provision for concrete measures, since, although 'environmental value' is often emphasised, nothing is proposed in this area. in this case, the french wood sector is doing well, although it benefits from better governance at national level: again, the european union is inadequate. protectionist measures would nevertheless be a means of protecting french and european timber, but of course the commission cannot envisage such a policy.
in writing. the european union continues its policy of absolute free trade...but in a one-way direction, to its own detriment. while the countries of asia impose protectionism at their borders, the union maintains its free trade policy, which is destructive for european jobs. this and china sell us wood (the processed logs) imported from europe cheaper than our own products. this is getting ridiculous. the european union is showing its true face: a machine that serves everyone but the peoples of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution calling for a new eu strategy on forests. firstly, forest management is the responsibility of the member states, which, given the great diversity of european forests, are the best place to act. a common strategy is not essential. the main objective of this strategy is not economically and ecologically sound, but rather to defend our forests and our timber sector. this sector requires a complete restructuring, so that all wood trades can be made available in the union and especially in france. we are sorely lacking in transformation actors. we export our bulk of noble essences to china and then reimport the processed products, at the cost of our jobs and an ecological disaster in terms of flows. finally, i deeply regret that our forests are seen only as 'economic tools' to be exploited and to be given a market value.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 28 april, i voted in favour of the new eu forestry strategy. the economic dimension of european forests has often been underestimated, even though they cover 40% of the eu's territory and account for nearly three million jobs. i therefore welcome the commission's emphasis on sustainable management and efficient use of forest resources and support for the forest industry as a driver of competitiveness, growth and jobs. such a strategy will strengthen the preservation of our forests and consolidate the economic, social and environmental benefits of the forestry sector.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this text promoting a new strategy for forests. first of all, because it is not for the european union to legislate on this matter, as the envi committee admitted in its opinion, although it asked the commission to 'take its leading role in promoting a sustainable forestry policy'. moreover, the new strategy makes little provision for concrete measures, since, although 'environmental value' is often emphasised, nothing is proposed in this area. in this case, the french wood sector is doing well, although it benefits from better governance at national level: again, the european union is inadequate. protectionist measures would nevertheless be a means of protecting french and european timber, but of course the commission cannot envisage such a policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on a new eu strategy for forests and the forestry sector. the adopted text stresses that the strategy must focus on the sustainable management of forests, but also highlights their role from an economic and social point of view. the text also calls for greater coherence between the role of the member states and that of the european union, while rejecting the increase in bureaucratic burdens for forest owners, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new eu forestry strategy. the strategy emphasises the key role of sustainable wood production and use in promoting sustainable business models and encouraging the creation of green jobs. the strategy will also emphasise the need for sustainable forest management. i welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. - i vote against it. the report rightly emphasizes the economic importance of the forestry sector. but the commission is looking at this issue mainly from the environmental angle, which is important but will not solve the crisis in the sector. the french forestry sector, despite its economic weight, is suffering from a chronic deficit of eur 6 billion. this is mainly due to the fact that france sells its logs to countries such as china which transform them into furniture and france buys these finished products made with its own resources. this is a major shortfall for our industries, which are in particular in need of investment to modernise. no decision is taken by parliament to protect our market, which is the main problem. the european parliament, moreover, wants to increase its authority to the detriment of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this new strategy which will emphasise the role of the eu to the detriment of the member countries, which is a flagrant attack on the sovereignty of the states. moreover, this strategy does not take account of the trade problems associated with the abuses of certain third countries.
in writing. ‒ forests cover more than 40% of the eu's land area. the general situation is characterized by an increasing demand for timber and thus threats to forests. the new eu strategy for forests and the forest-based sector focuses on the bioeconomic aspects. and even though it has sustainable development objectives it allows for short-term exploitation of the forest via short-rotation forestry . moreover, the recommendation of forest management plans may remain wishful thinking because it will have to be done without creating unnecessary bureaucratic burden. in the face of such a narrow view of forestry issues that ignores the issues of biodiversity, the impact on agriculture and employment, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ this text promotes a new strategy for forests. first of all, because it is not for the european union to legislate on this matter, as the envi committee admitted in its opinion, although it asked the commission to 'take its leading role in promoting a sustainable forestry policy'. moreover, the new strategy makes little provision for concrete measures, since, although 'environmental value' is often emphasised, nothing is proposed in this area. in this case, the french wood sector is doing well, although it is benefiting from better governance at national level: once again, the european union seems to be inadequate. protectionist measures would nevertheless be a means of protecting french and european timber, but of course the commission cannot envisage such a policy. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report does not propose any concrete proposals to promote a form of protectionism, even european protectionism, to counter the aggressive policies of certain countries such as china. this is the central problem for the wood sector, particularly in france. as the numerous parliamentary reports on the subject have pointed out, the problem is due to the obsolescence of the sawmills but also to the fact that they export their logs and import, in particular from china, finished products (parquet floors, furniture, etc.). the vote is against, for these reasons among others.
in writing. the resolution aims to adopt a new strategy for forests. it is firstly recalled that this strategy remains at the discretion of the member states, which are autonomous and competent to conduct their forestry policy. however, the union is intervening, wanting to become, in the long term, a coordinating force for these policies and insisting that parliament's opinion should be consulted. the report focuses too much on the ecological value of the forest and neglects the economic aspect it can represent. indeed, nothing is said about the export of raw wood abroad and the import of processed wood with higher added value. it would have been wise to have considered a certain protectionism to deal with unfair competition from certain countries, including china, as a remedy to this problem. since the report praises the ecological value of the forest, it would also be appropriate to recall the disastrous impact of such a globalised production process on the environment. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ forests and other wooded areas cover more than 40% of the eu's territory and the forest area has increased by 0.4% per year in recent decades. i voted in favour of this text establishing a new eu strategy for forests and the forestry sector. this strategy recognises the competence of member states in forest management (principle of subsidiarity) and focuses on strengthening cooperation between member states to deal with transnational challenges such as fires, climate change, natural disasters or invasive alien species. the report i voted for also stresses the need to ensure that forest resources and forestry materials are used and reused efficiently. finally, the increase in the administrative burden for forest owners is rejected throughout the text.
in writing. this own-initiative report aims to put forests and the forestry sector at the heart of the shift towards a green economy and to appreciate the value of the benefits that forests can provide in a sustainable way, while ensuring their protection. it covers areas such as rural development, bioenergy, climate change, ecosystems and biodiversity, forest knowledge, innovation and governance. the current eu strategy dates from 1998, and a new european framework is needed for forests, which are facing new challenges from environmental, societal and political changes. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this text raises two major problems: firstly, it subjects forestry policy to the commission's discretion and thus once again infringes the sovereignty of the member states. on the other hand, it presents an absurd vision of forestry: seeing in forests, above all, beautiful green spaces for recreation and ecology, it does nothing to protect the economy of wood, while the member states, and in particular france, are subjected to a dramatic situation: the logs are exported to china and returned as processed products. the european timber sector is thus subject to unfair competition, partly because of china's protectionist policies, and the ecological cost of these round trips does not seem to be a matter of concern to the commission, despite the interest it claims to have in protecting the environment. i can therefore only vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ today, almost 40% of europe is covered by forests and wood-related industries employ more than 3.5 million people in europe. the forest is a source of wealth and growth which is not negligible to that of the union. with this in mind, the european parliament adopted the new eu forest strategy, replacing the 1998 text. i voted in favour of this text. it emphasises forest management, sustainable development, the intelligent and respectful use of forest raw materials and the exploitation of the economic potential of forest areas. forest areas are now an important source of employment and it is necessary to regulate this development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is part of the development of a european strategy for forests and the forestry sector. we highlight the three areas of work which we believe will be essential for the coming years in this sector: the prevention of fires and natural disasters, the fight against climate change, and the sustainable management of forest raw materials (wood, cork, textile fibres). in addition, as forestry is a sector in perpetual change, we encourage innovation through forestry research and training, including support from european programmes and funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out parliament's priorities for promoting sustainable forest management and the competitiveness of the forestry industry. forests cover more than 40% of the eu's territory, and wood is a natural, renewable, reusable and recyclable raw material. forests play an economic, social and environmental role and account for 3.5 million jobs. with this report, europe is finally tackling the dramatic problem of the plundering of european forest resources by emerging countries. europe is failing to protect its forest resources, while all the other major countries are introducing export taxes. this free access increases the price of wood for the european industry, especially for sawmills, which can no longer supply themselves. the number of sawmills in france has fallen by 15% since 2000. the report explicitly calls on the commission to analyse the supply difficulties of the downstream sector, linked to the increase in demand in third countries, in particular for roundwood, and to support this sector.
in writing. ‒ the report rightly emphasises the economic importance of the forestry sector. but the commission is looking at this issue mainly from the environmental angle, which is important but will not solve the crisis in the sector. the french forestry sector, despite its economic weight, is suffering from a chronic deficit of eur 6 million. this is mainly because france sells its logs to countries like china which turn them into furniture. france imports these finished products made with its own resources. this is a major shortfall for our industries, which need investment to modernise. no decision is taken by parliament to protect our market, which is the main problem. parliament also wants to increase its authority to the detriment of the member states. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ forests cover 40% of the eu's territory since 1998, a european forestry strategy has been implemented in cooperation between member states. in the face of increasing threats to forests due to climate change, loss of biodiversity, urban sprawl, and the growing demand for bio-based products, including those derived from forests and wood, the eu forest strategy needs to be revised to ensure sustainable forest management. in its resolution, the european parliament proposes a renewed framework which reaffirms the imperative of sustainable forest management ensuring the maintenance of biodiversity and ecosystems while allowing for multifunctional use of forests, the development of the wood sector and the production of materials for the development of new products and materials. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution of the european parliament, without any illusions however about the reality of its impact because they do not impose any obligations on the member states.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, security also means respect for freedom and justice, three aspects that are inextricably linked. but in your programme, beyond words, the safety prism is very much in the forefront. there can be no security and safety without respect for fundamental rights. in the european union we are regressing in this area. we all know why, it's been said before. the member states are in control, we are increasingly giving priority to repression over prevention and terrorism is becoming an obsession, to the detriment of, whatever you may say, the fight against organised crime. the two, as we all know, are inextricably linked. priority has been given to the fight against radicalisation and therefore jihadist networks, and the link is made with migration issues. these attacks are marked by public opinion: they are violent, the most deadly, but they represent only 5% of terrorist attacks in the european union. so are the priorities really adapted to the need for the security of citizens, or are they a short-term response to media pressure that also overestimates islamic terrorism? the key is police cooperation. but beyond the speeches we know that it is not working well, partly because of the reduced budgetary and human resources. the commission has new powers. if fundamental rights are not respected, particularly by the member states, how does the commission really intend to combat the threat posed to these rights by security policies? this is the european-style patriot act. but when we look at what is happening in the united states, we see that this is not the key. it is time to return to the basics of the rule of law and respect for citizens' rights. it must be remembered that the principles of necessity and proportionality must be at the heart of security policies. since you became commissioner, mr avramopoulos, you have been feeding us with your speeches. as for the deeds, i am skeptical!
mr president, on 7 january last 17 people were killed in france in the attack by islamist terrorists on charlie hebdo and then on a kosher grocery store. french jews were killed because they were jews, police officers because they represented the republican order, the press and freedom of expression were attacked by bloodthirsty madmen. since the deadly attacks, françois hollande has launched a grand plan against islamophobia, but has done nothing against the proven perpetrator of the attacks: radical islamism. nothing has been done to strengthen our borders. terrorists and weapons are still moving unchecked from one european country to another. nothing has been done to combat illegal immigration and we hear voices calling for the reception of even more immigrants on our soil. yet the president of the libyan constituent assembly and the italian foreign minister have claimed that the european union is underestimating the risk of islamist militants infiltrating europe, hidden among the refugees. nothing has been done to control salafist preaching in mosques and nothing has been done in schools to restore authority and discipline or to assimilate young immigrants by teaching history in class, the national novel, the crucible of a thousand-year-old france. seventeen dead plus a young woman, again, a few days ago, killed by a fundamentalist, but nothing to stop islamist terrorism permanently.
mr president, the european agenda on security rightly places great emphasis on the fight against terrorism and cybercrime. the internet and social networks are now among the preferred channels for terrorist groups to recruit and disseminate their hate speech. the internet is also the site of large-scale terrorist attacks, such as the recent one on tv5 monde in france. these attacks are deliberately aimed at our freedom of expression and our right to information. the european counter-terrorism strategy must involve the development of real cybersecurity coordination between the union and its member states, but also with the major internet operators, to counter terrorist propaganda online, under the control of judicial authorities and while ensuring full respect for freedom of expression. finally, it is essential to develop counter-narratives to deconstruct the ideology of violence and hatred propagated by terrorists. in the face of those who wish to divide us, let us respond with more common action and solidarity.
madam president, by the classic method of small steps, brussels is proposing the creation of a european judiciary which would have control over whole sections of the judicial systems of the member states. the long-term objective is, of course, that this so-called european justice system should become all-powerful and completely replace national courts. it will then be necessary to strengthen a supranational law, which will eventually wipe out french law and all national rights from history. justice has been part of the functions of kings, the very essence of the state, from antiquity to the present day. the removal of this nuclear core would mean leaving the citizen alone in the face of an institution that has no connection with the people, and therefore with democracy, and leaving the state helpless in the face of internal threats. justice in france is and always will be done, as it is written in the judgments of our courts, "in the name of the french people". in the face of criminals and weapons that pass without any difficulty from one european country to another, we simply have to find our borders and demand that our national courts cooperate better in resolving international affairs. the european public prosecutor's office, this bureaucratic monster, is a project as useless as it is anti-democratic. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i believe that justice, like borders, the budget, the currency and the law normally is one of the essential and primary attributes of a state. as long as there is no european people, there can be no european justice, just as there should be no european currency, no european supranational law, no european budget higher than national budgets, etc. it is an essential and consubstantial element of national sovereignty, of the sovereignty of the peoples, and we know that if we separate justice from the reality of the peoples, we go against the tide of what democracy is.
madam president, since 2001, german intelligence services have been spying on european companies and personalities, particularly french ones, on behalf of the united states. this information, revealed by the magazine der spiegel, has just been confirmed by mrs merkel. the chancellor is trying to shake off her responsibility by blaming her secret services for having had - and i quote - "technical and organisational weaknesses". this case is serious because it proves that germany has betrayed france and its european partners to the united states. it also tends, in my view, to prove that germany is using the european union to serve american interests. we must draw the consequences and question the transatlantic partnership project.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, madam rapporteur and colleagues, the europeans within the g20 have committed themselves to act quickly and strongly to regulate the growing amount of credit managed outside the conventional banking system. we are committed to limiting the systemic risk of vlc funds and their false promise of a constant return. i am sorry to say that the text voted in the econ committee does not meet our international commitments. the fsb and the icso recommended converting constant value funds into variable value funds or, where this was too difficult, applying the same rules to these funds as to conventional banks. the abolition of the capital buffer proposed by the european commission led to the rejection of the second option. however, the conversion of the vlcs has not been completed. by creating three new categories of vlc, only one of which would be subject to a transitional clause, the choice was made to preserve a certain risk sector. that is why, if the text remains unchanged, the ecological group would be forced to vote against it. that is why we have tabled a new set of amendments, one of which proposes to extend the transition clause to the three newly created categories of vlc. if our amendment to rule 27 were to be adopted, the green group as a whole would be prepared to vote for the text as amended. madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that the text voted in the econ committee really reflects the political balance in this house. the pressure of the lobbies and the determination of a few colleagues not to act have strongly distorted our perception. i believe that a majority of members in this house want to limit this systemic risk which ultimately threatens all european economies.
madam president, the european parliament made an attempt in this matter during the previous parliamentary term. clearly, his courageous stand did not lead to an agreement with the council. we are dealing here with a very important matter, one which puts europe at the forefront of the international scene. the treatment of monetary funds is something that all international organizations interested in market stability or in the fight against the shadow banking system are asking us to act on. this is the case for the icso and the financial stability board, but also for the european institutions that are members of the esrb. the position that this european parliament is going to take must be a courageous one, one which enables us to fight effectively against this important part of the parallel banking system, let us not be afraid of words. this position will be all the more important as we are about to enter into discussions with commissioner hill on the establishment of a capital market. i would not like us to discuss a future european capital union without having a clear strategy for these monetary funds, whose volatility must disappear.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr president of the court of auditors, madam vice-president, mr president-in-office, as rapporteur for parliament's discharge for 2013, my first objective is to ensure that public money from taxpayers is used in the best possible way in the european parliament. i have been fully supported in my approach by the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i would like to pay special tribute to this afternoon. in these times of crisis, we must support the citizens of europe by showing them that we are capable of improving, at every possible level, the efficiency of parliament's daily work. the european parliament must continue its efforts in areas where the quality and efficiency of public financial management can still be improved. that is why in my report i am calling for additional efforts to be made in certain areas, such as, first, the strengthening of controls on the recruitment of local assistants - the number of local assistants per member of the european parliament ranged from 0 to 43 in 2013 - and then the payment of grants to visitor groups, mostly in cash: 73% in cash and only 27% by bank transfer in 2013. the third improvement i would like to see is the mission expenses for staff in the european parliament's information offices, which increased by 7% in 2013. videoconferencing should be preferred over expensive travel. i also stress the need to go further in the area of parity. i see a lack of parity in the positions of responsibility in parliament's administration: women represent only 29% of heads of unit, 33% of managing directors and 34% of directors. it is also worth stressing the need to reach an agreement on the joint management of the houses of europe between the parliament and the european commission, in order to share the costs of these houses between the two institutions. we should also improve the transmission to the cont committee of the results of the evaluation of the status of accredited parliamentary assistants. it is also necessary to recognize the successes of our administration and for this reason i would like to welcome the effective implementation of the ban on members recruiting their family members or spouses. we should also welcome the 5% reduction in meps' travel expenses, which saved €4 million in 2013. the savings of €25 million in 2013 by the directorates-general for interpretation and translation, and the reduction in the budget of europarltv, €8 million in 2013 compared to €5 million in 2014, are also welcome, alongside the increase in the number of videos viewed: between 2012 and 2014, the number of videos viewed rose from 53 000 to 400 000. we must welcome the good preparation for the termination of the contracts of the 1 700 accredited parliamentary assistants. i think we should also highlight the effectiveness of the paperless programme to reduce the number of printouts of documents in parliament, which is a significant improvement and i should like to welcome it. i shall be voting in plenary tomorrow in favour of the amendments calling for more transparency in the way members manage the general expenditure envelope. it is an amendment co-signed by the ppe group and the s&d group and supported by other groups here, notably the alde and ecr groups. finally, i should like to say that tomorrow i will be advocating increased scrutiny of members' declarations of interests. on the other hand, as rapporteur, i will oppose the amendments in favour of a single seat for the european parliament and the abolition of the lux prize. that is what i wanted to say in this report, mr president, ladies and gentlemen.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioner, i would like to recall the key role of the european fisheries control agency in vigo. it has a fundamental role to play in monitoring the proper implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy, and in particular the landing obligation, which we adopted this morning. since its establishment, the agency has achieved very good results in terms of surveillance. it also ensures the coordination and implementation of control activities in all member states. i am satisfied with the statement of assurance by the court of auditors as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013. i should also like to congratulate the agency on its excellent rate of implementation of commitment appropriations (99%) and the good implementation of payment appropriations (84%). i also welcome the level of consumption of the appropriations carried over, with a rate of implementation of 90%. for all these reasons, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries, i have proposed to give discharge to the executive director of the european fisheries control agency.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, as every year, the court of auditors has examined the annual accounts of the nine agencies whose activities fall within the remit of the libe committee. the budget discharge notices do not always arouse a delusional enthusiasm ... yet, when you look at it more closely, this landfill has great political significance. a large number of agencies have been set up in the area of freedom, security and justice. the financial risk associated with the agencies is relatively low in relation to the total budget of the union, but the risk to the union's reputation is high. the agencies enjoy a high visibility in the member states and have a significant influence on policy-making, decision-making and programme implementation, all in sectors that are very sensitive to the daily lives of our fellow europeans. the balance sheet for all the budgets of the various entities submitted to the libe committee is generally positive. in general, there is an improvement over the remarks and criticisms made the previous year. that said, there is still a need to encourage the agencies to improve their budget planning, the transparency of their budgetary functioning and the optimal use of their budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on discharge calls for the following observation. the systematic questioning of the management of the budget by the member states and the commission, calling into question this shared management, calls for a substantive debate on the future of the european institutions. these rates of error are no longer acceptable, whether in regional policy or rural development. the european court of auditors has serious doubts about the data provided by the member states. but some institutions also knowingly provide incorrect data, which proves that this system does not work, because the repetition of uncorrected errors over time discredits the functioning of the whole and demonstrates the sclerosis of this scheme. the most recent cases of fraud concern agencies and, in particular, the award of public contracts or conflicts of interest among certain experts. finally, could we have any clarifications on the case of img, a specialised agency that has been the subject of an investigation since 2011 and about which we know little? this international organisation has benefited from european funds without ever participating in any tendering procedure. between 1994 and 2014, it received 135 million euros! olaf notes that this agency has no legal existence. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
mr president, i welcome this report by the court of auditors, and particularly its comments on a matter with which i am familiar a european delegation having visited cadarache , namely the financial and administrative management of the iter project. not only is it clear that the committee on budgetary control did not vote on the discharge for iter, but it is also clear that this is an opaque project (there is no transparency on the precise timetable of work), very expensive (its cost has increased from €5 billion to €16 billion since 2006), which requires an extension of €290 million and, in addition, requires another 30 years to finance and enable the construction of this first iter project, which is also hypothetical. i think that not voting for the discharge will enable the organisers of iter to answer the questions of the european parliament on this administrative and financial management. i think the court of auditors' analysis is a very good tool for parliamentarians to have precise answers to their questions.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, mr president-in-office, first of all, perhaps a few words to answer or accompany a number of speeches on the 2013 discharge for the european parliament. first, i would like to talk about the lux price. yes, we must defend it! this is a strong demonstration of the european parliament, which often makes it possible, particularly through its documentaries, for which we are giving awards, to highlight the depravities of our societies. we must therefore defend the lux prize, because it is part - i say this - of our cultural identity. secondly, i would also like to defend the house of european history project and not, as some have claimed, abandon it. let us recall the beautiful phrase: "a people without memory is a people without a future". that is why we must defend this fine project of the house of european history. thirdly, a comment on mr valli, who says that we must reduce or even cancel our funding for the foundations of european political parties. it is democracy we defend, mr valli. we are not just a local political expression, like perhaps your five star movement in italy, but we are internationalists, all of us as much as we are. we must therefore ensure that our debate goes beyond our local concerns. by financing the foundations we are helping to keep democracy alive and developing, including european democracy. i would like to return to a controversy. we heard earlier mr dartmouth attacking the president's office. that said, the hate speech discredits the author of that populist rant we heard. i think the ecr representative, mr kirkhope, has said what he had to say about the hypocrisy of ukip representatives here in this house. we have shown in this report our willingness to create more transparency, as i said at the beginning of my speech. now, after this photograph that we took as part of this 2013 landfill report, there's still a way to go. as françois mitterrand said, "where there is a will, there is a way". i think we will continue to follow this path of transparency with all the members of the european parliament who wish to do so.
i'm the reporter. mr president, madam commissioner, i would first like to say that i am proud of our institutional work at european level tonight. there was a real will between the commission, the council - i regret the departure of the council - and parliament to reach a conclusion very quickly in order to be effective. it is this political efficiency that has defined our strategy. so, commissioner, i think i can say a big thank you, because we started our work on 4 february and tomorrow is 29 april. i think there are few european decisions that are taken so efficiently and so quickly. i would also like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i would like to mention here: brando benifei, for the s&d group, jana žitňanská, for the ecr group, martina dlabajová, for the alde group, terry reintke, for the greens/efa group, and patrick le hyaric, for the gue/ngl group. we have been able to put aside our differences and unite our wills because we knew what direction we wanted to take. what was the meaning of our work? we wanted europe to be effective in the employment of young people. the youth employment initiative is the most difficult part of successfully employing young people. why would you do that? because it concerns the most disadvantaged regions - where at least 25% of young people aged 15 to 25 are unemployed - and the most difficult groups. it is aimed at both young people who have left school without qualifications and young graduates who are unable to enter the world of work because their training does not match the needs of employers. so we're tackling the hardest part of the rock with this youth employment initiative. it took a lot of willpower, all of us, all of us together, to get this done in record time. i think that validates our working strategy. as rapporteur, i wanted to see as much information as possible shared between all the political groups. that is why we have met with the commission, with the council, with each other, as much as is necessary, in order to be able to align our political will on this single objective of success for young people. i am proud of europe tonight because we have not only succeeded in achieving unanimity of our will, but also in meeting a real need for land in record time. because that's what europe is. it also shows in this house that it is aware of the needs of the field. the operational programmes took some time to be signed. what do project managers in the field need? they do need significant prefinancing. so when you propose, madam commissioner, that this prefinancing should be increased from 1% to 30%, that means that, yes, europe is aware of the needs on the ground. the project promoters cannot advance the funds they so badly need, especially in the most deprived regions. that's a very effective boost. we are indeed in a race against time and i sincerely hope that we will win it together. we must be proud of our work tonight and i hope that tomorrow we will have a very meaningful vote which will be a message to the member states that they can roll up their sleeves and help these projects of the youth employment initiative. these are the projects we need. it is therefore now up to the council to encourage the member states to ensure that young people on the ground can benefit from our pre-financing work.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is a response to a situation which we have repeatedly deplored. more than a year after the adoption of the youth guarantee, the results are not satisfactory in the face of the scale of unemployment, which affects one in five young people in europe today, and the risks of marginalisation, social exclusion and lasting poverty. difficult implementation, insufficient investment, lack of ambition - all these symptoms affect the youth guarantee as it is currently implemented. but we cannot allow an entire generation to be lost in this way. the text proposed here is therefore an indispensable measure to reduce the widening gap between young people, those with higher education qualifications, those without qualifications and those with intermediate education. it is also essential to help young people to stay in touch with the world of work and training. this is essential, above all, to prevent the trap of longterm unemployment and its deleterious spiral. young people have been the main victims of the economic crisis since 2008. the most vulnerable among them are those who lack sufficient education or qualifications. in addition, special attention must be paid to young people with immigrant backgrounds, disabilities or health problems, and they must not be left behind in any way. so we had to act very quickly. this is what parliament has done for the youth of europe.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the urgency of responding to the tragedy of unemployment and youth unemployment, we welcome the decision to increase the amount of prefinancing and to release immediately one billion euro of appropriations for the youth employment initiative. it is now up to the states to take action and ensure that this money actually reaches the recipients and is effective. on the other hand, we must ensure that this programme can be sustained and improved, and that the sums allocated to employment and training of young people are increased. while we approve of mrs morin-chartier's report, we are aware that this progress is still very insufficient to enable the seven million young europeans who are currently out of work to have access to training and to properly paid employment. access to work should be a right and a real social project of the european construction. in this sense, we should invent a european public service for training, integration and job security. i believe that there is an urgent need to create the conditions for a future for every young european.
mr president, i too would like to welcome the work of the rapporteur and the commission. the advance of the funds needed to start the action to combat youth unemployment is obviously good news. this is proof that the european union is able to act concretely, quickly and effectively in the event of a crisis. that said, the ball is now in the court of the member states. various measures need to be taken: encouraging apprenticeship, encouraging young people to start their own businesses or adapting training to new digital skills. i would like to emphasize one point: crossborder mobility. it enables young people to grasp more easily the professional perspectives across borders. this mobility is achieved through language learning. in my country, france, the government wants to abolish bilingual classes, which is totally contrary to all the efforts we are making here. crossborder mobility also requires better information on job vacancies abroad and effective recognition of qualifications. all these measures, which are very different but complementary, will enable us to move forward together in the fight against youth unemployment.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you on the way in which, with this regulation and with this development, you are helping, together with all my colleagues, to remove the obstacle of prefinancing. this was an insurmountable obstacle and here we are really giving more than a push, we are giving a very clear sign of the knowledge that europe has difficulties on the ground. i would like to mobilise my colleagues for the vote tomorrow. let us not be mistaken: we agree on the substance. this prefinancing is a cornerstone of the fight against youth unemployment. it is not the only one, the commissioner has just said it very broadly. but if we have a very strong vote, then we will show all the heads of state or government tomorrow that we are not in the business of encouraging, but that we are demanding their commitment to make this policy of the youth employment initiative a success. and it will not succeed for them, for them to boast - i have heard a lot of national discussions tonight - it will succeed because we have to engage our european policies so that young people can find real quality work. tomorrow's vote will reflect this demand which we want to put before the member states. the third point i wanted to stress is that, as you have understood, commissioner, we will not let go of the piece. that is to say, as a result of the work we have done together to make this prefinancing a success, yes, we want results. results will be obtained if the projects are of high quality. we need field projects. we want a report, we want to follow the progress of the initiative with the commission, at the level of the committee on employment and social affairs. we want to reap the fruits of this political commitment by standing with you tonight, madam commissioner. we are firmly committed to this. to my colleagues who have said that the youth employment initiative is not enough, i would like to say that we have other tools: the youth guarantee and the european social fund are designed to get young people back into employment, and we will be working on this continuously.
in writing. the employment situation in most eu countries is dramatic. unemployment has exploded in some member states, highlighting the widening gaps in economic and social performance between member states: in greece and spain, for example, more than one in two young people are unemployed. we support this proposal which will allow the commission to release €1 billion to ensure a rapid ramp-up of the youth employment initiative from 2015. however, much remains to be done: for sustainable economic development capable of providing quality employment for our fellow citizens. if we do not act quickly to strengthen social cohesion and investment in europe, the very support of our citizens for the construction of europe is in danger of being eroded.
in writing. youth unemployment is a worrying phenomenon in europe, so it is legitimate to be concerned about it and, indeed, to intervene in regions where youth unemployment exceeds 25%, with an increase in prefinancing from 1 to 30% at constant budget seems to be a necessity. however, this seems to be a wishful thinking: as we have seen in france, with measures such as jobs for young people or jobs for the future, these programmes often fail. the transition to employment will only be possible if jobs exist and these measures will not create jobs ex nihilo. the commission's promise to make all the funds available by 2015 is commendable, but it will not be enough: youth unemployment is not due to the weakness of this pre-financing but to the disappearance and lack of jobs. the only solution is to protect our production from social dumping, to practice prudent protectionism at the level of each member state and to enable them to take the necessary measures to create jobs and to get out of the crisis. only then can we get young people out of unemployment.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would like to warmly congratulate our rapporteur on the quality of his work. i want to do so, especially since the work he had to do was not easy, since we had to find 10 million euros of savings compared with the bureau's initial proposals. this work was all the more difficult because we saw during the discussions that there was some - let us call it that - unexpected collusion, which allowed, it must be said, the increase of a whole series of very inappropriate envelopes, and which were not - as the rapporteur said - the subject of a compromise between us. what envelopes are we talking about? the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european parliamentary assembly, which would be the first to be established in the union. the question i ask myself and we must ask ourselves is whether all these increases are really serious in a context where we call on people and states to make ever greater efforts and sacrifices, which obliges us to set an example. i am afraid that with this 2016 budget we are not going to go down that road.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, on 23 april, édouard perrin, the journalist who had revealed the whole of the luxleaks scandal, was indicted by the luxembourg courts. like whistleblower antoine deltour, he is being sued for breach of trade secret. it's a blow to our democratic life. it reveals the brutality of a system that is being crippled by successive revelations. the role of whistleblowers and journalists is vital in tax justice, environmental and labour law. the european union, through its directive on business secrecy, is choosing secrecy and openness, while the demand for transparency has never been more pressing. commissioner, the cases of edouard perrin and antoine deltour are unacceptable. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe. we happen to know the names of these special interests, their lobbyists and their advisers. the new commission and the new commissioner would do themselves the honour of shedding full light on the relations that existed in the old commission.
mr president, commissioner, tax whistleblowers have uncovered a number of major scandals, from the hsbc case to luxleaks. without these sources, the justice system, and public opinion, would never have heard of these cases. we must therefore protect those who have the courage to report illegal activities, often risking professional or personal reprisals for defending the general interest of the citizens. but i believe that the protection of whistleblowers must be comprehensive and also cover cases of corruption in the broad sense, especially by political leaders, or breaches of labour or environmental regulations. why not also denounce illegal immigration networks and trafficking? the limit must be the respect for private life in matters of taxation. this is not to encourage an unhealthy form of dealing. the libel complaint must be pursued. in addition to serious sanctions to be imposed on active fraudsters, financial institutions and consultancies must also be targeted, since they are also guilty of deliberately organising such fraud. this is the case, for example, of pricewaterhousecoopers in the luxleaks scandal. in the context of the directive on business confidentiality, the european union must ensure that it remains consistent and that its scope is well defined. if this balance is achieved, the national front is in favour of this directive on the protection of whistleblowers and journalists.
mr president, my point of order will be particularly on rule 152 (2) and rule 154. we are all, or almost all, committed to the fight against the death penalty, as we have just heard. yesterday, eight people were executed in indonesia: one indonesian, four africans, two australians and one brazilian. i ask, on behalf of my group, that we amend the emergency resolutions for tomorrow afternoon so that this matter is included in the agenda. there are europeans on death row. their names were removed in extremis from the list of convicts who were executed yesterday. serge atlaoui, a frenchman, who claims innocence, is among them. his name was removed from the list of executions at the last minute, but if we do not speak to the european parliament before the next plenary session, it will be too late! i appeal to you! among our urgent subjects there are some less priority subjects which can wait until the next part-session.
madam president, public opinion is asking itself: what is europe doing about the explosion of migration flows from the middle east and africa? the successive minutes of silence, punctuated by the multiplication of tragedies in the mediterranean, is a pathetic admission of impotence. it is in these circumstances that we turn our attention to frontex, the agency which the european union has set up to monitor and contain, in cooperation with the member states, all attempts to cross our external borders illegally. frontex has been established in warsaw for 11 years. not all of his employees are polish. for other staff, the host country - in this case poland - undertakes to provide benefits which facilitate the personal settlement of staff and their families. it's the subject of a siege agreement. i have just learned that poland has not yet signed this agreement. i am surprised and i hope that the president-in-office of the council will urge the polish authorities to make this possible as a matter of urgency. we have to provide the european union with a government, without which there can be no control of migration flows.
madam president, the council's proposals are unworthy and turn their backs on our duty. to believe that further tightening of controls will prevent migrants from escaping the chaos is an ineffective and deadly illusion. our immigration policy plays into the hands of the mafia, who take advantage of the desperation of those fleeing poverty and war that ravage their country. so what do you do? let's get back to our principles! let us act against what is a political failure and a humanitarian catastrophe. rescue people in distress, via a european search and rescue mission over a wide operational area. let us renew the solidarity we showed when we welcomed hundreds of thousands of vietnamese boat people. let's put in place an ambitious resettlement program, beyond that shamefully low figure of 5,000 refugees. let us offer these migrants who are in danger legal pathways of immigration rather than turning a blind eye to the corpses that lie at the bottom of the mediterranean. we have no excuse, the shipwreck is ours too!
mr president, the terrible truth is that the recent human tragedies in the mediterranean are a consequence of your migration policy. today, smugglers alert the italian navy to recover the boats. so, of course, when we triple the resources to bring migrants to european shores instead of returning them to the port of departure, we are objectively accomplices of the smugglers! mrs joly, you were the investigating judge: is not the definition of complicity 'help, assistance, provision of means'? you have increased the obstacles to the expulsion of illegal immigrants, who are now only returned in 1% of cases. to put an end to these tragedies and to illegal immigration, it is first of all important to allow the states to restore their borders and to implement a voluntary policy aimed at stopping the vacuum pumps and returning ships to their port of origin. this is an effective and humanistic policy which must be adopted, and which australia has followed with success. secondly, there is an urgent need to restore the rule of law in syria and libya, countries which your irresponsible foreign policy has handed over to islamic fundamentalists and human traffickers. and then, stop your hypocrisy. you want immigration, that's your project. we need only hear mr juncker say that we must open the doors to prevent people from entering through the windows. but have you asked the people of the european nations what they think? because i have not heard of the peoples of the european nations in this chamber for an hour. and i'm not surprised!
mr president, albert einstein said: "foolishness is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result". listening to our conversations, there are questions! while an effective rescue system at sea should have been put in place, it was decided to reinforce operations triton and poseidon to a minimum. the new budget corresponds to that of mare nostrum, but can we really speak of a european rescue operation when 12 member states refuse to participate? while legal channels should have been created or strengthened, a voluntary pilot project of resettlement is being set up, without any concrete proposal on the number of places available. the conclusions say nothing about humanitarian admissions, visas or family reunification. i would remind you that it is not because there are trafficking networks that there are refugees, but because displaced persons cannot reach a place of safety that there are trafficking networks. it would have required an intra-european solidarity mechanism, but the result is almost non-existent. the announced prospect of half a million people arriving on european shores in 2015 could have prompted states to address the issue of the temporary protection directive or article 78 (3) of the treaty. the european council statement says nothing of this! europe, without distinction, is in the crosshairs, but responsibilities should be duly assumed, because it is impossible to act if cold-blooded states do not give themselves the means to act and to act together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of migration is certainly not a problem of today or of the next few months. it is certainly not a cyclical problem, but a real structural problem for the years to come. political crises, wars, the desertification of the countryside, economic crises, poor governance - all these will cause more and more men and women to leave their countries and risk their lives in search of better living conditions. the establishment of rescue and humanitarian reception systems or the strengthening of frontex is good, but it is notoriously insufficient. what is needed is to tackle the problem at its source, where it exists, as pope francis has urged us to do, in this very house, where his speech was unanimously applauded. what practical steps can you take? first, we have to start with reality. we are helping a number of these countries of origin. in return for this help, we must also demand better governance from them. we must demand that they participate in real development that benefits the whole of their population. that's what we have to do. at the same time, it is also essential to address immigration applicants, in particular by informing them that communication works very well in these areas, that they risk their lives and those of all their loved ones, and that the networks they use are, in reality, real mafia networks. the european union's action can then be concrete, and not simply protective of itself.
in writing. france and europe are facing a veritable migration flood which is only getting worse as the months go by. the causes of this uncontrolled immigration are well known: the current libyan government's inability to control its borders and to combat mafia networks of smugglers, the population explosion affecting the african continent and the european migration policy, which is a real appeal to illegal immigration. as such, the various declarations of intent by the european parliamentarians are totally contrary to the aspirations of the peoples of europe, who want to see a policy of deterrence on immigration. that is why, rather than welcome illegal migrants to our shores, we should send them back to where they came from. the european commission should take as a model australia, which has a strong policy to combat immigration and has led to a significant drop in illegal entry. the member states of the union must turn their backs on ingenuity and naivety and take up this issue hand in hand to protect our borders from this migratory pressure which has become unbearable.
in writing. the council's positions, taken as a whole, are nonsensical and absurd. we all know that mass immigration today is not good for the men who try it or for those who welcome it. the council is still persisting and is strengthening existing mechanisms which have been phased out, when it is a question of changing the paradigm. firstly, the council is basing itself on two erroneous claims: the attractiveness of illegal immigration and the voluntary return of migrants who have arrived in the union. who will the council make believe that the men and women who crossed the mediterranean in unworthy conditions to reach the territory of the union will decide to leave voluntarily? the report that will be presented also repeatedly blames the member states, which would be subject to binding solidarity and would be required to set rates for the distribution of asylum seekers. it is clear that the council has no desire to preserve social peace in europe or the national cohesion of its peoples. your dreams of immigration will make people suffer on both sides of the mediterranean.
in writing. since the beginning of the year, nearly 1 776 people have lost their lives in the mediterranean. the emotion and indignation aroused by these terrible tragedies must not, however, obscure the duty of reality and lucidity of the elected representatives and the european institutions, which have been too slow to act. the extraordinary european council voted to triple the funding, which is a first step, but the urgent need is to establish genuine european coordination. i note that not all states will provide the agency with human and material resources. solidarity is also at play at this level. in 2008, under the french presidency of the union, i proposed a pact on immigration and asylum which set out an ambitious roadmap that was unanimously welcomed. what have we done since then? we know what the priorities are: to fight smugglers and traffickers who take advantage of the misery of migrants; to strengthen dialogue with countries of origin and transit; to make development aid conditional on a real effort to control migration flows; to support the restoration of security and stability in libya. the eyes of the european citizens are on your action. in their interests and those of the migrants, offer us some prospects!
in writing. more than 1 500 people have disappeared in the mediterranean since the beginning of the year. tragedy is repeated, as migrants and asylum seekers are forced to risk their lives to reach the european union. while the union can and must do more, all member states without exception must also shoulder their share of responsibility and show solidarity in saving lives and welcoming more refugees. the decisions of the european summit are far from being relevant to the issues at stake. we need a european-wide operation for rescue and search at sea, with the participation of all states. it is also our responsibility to fill the gap created by the absence of safe and legal pathways for refugees to europe. there are concrete solutions: a mandatory european resettlement programme, a european system of humanitarian visas, the possibility of applying for asylum in the embassies of the countries of the union, the activation of the directive on temporary protection. finally, we must not forget the need to strengthen our dialogue with third countries and to help stabilise the situation in libya, which has become a platform for smugglers and criminal networks.
in writing. ‒ this report provides an overview of the expenditure of the ec and the member states on the various eu policies. the report is based on an internal audit by the commission and on the court of auditors' report on the implementation of the eu general budget. the budgetary management by the commission and the member states is systematically called into question. the report raises concerns about shared management actions. the court of auditors has serious doubts about the data provided by the member states but also by certain institutions. this repetition of uncorrected errors over time discredits the functioning of the whole and demonstrates the sclerosis of this pattern. the most frequent cases of fraud are linked to public procurement and conflicts of interest. the most problematic sectors with the highest error rates are still agricultural and rural policy and regional development policy. it is for these reasons, among others, that i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. i voted against this report calling for discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. the ep report gives an overview of the state of play of ec and member state expenditure on the various eu policies. the report clearly stigmatises the management of the budget by the member states more than by the commission. parliament thus expressed doubts about shared management actions. the average error rate for the general budget is 4.7%. some countries provide incorrect data without being punished. in some cases, the states have good information without correcting their mistakes. the report clearly calls for an increased role for parliament in the examination of expenditure and for more controls at all levels. parliament called on the commission to simplify the procedures for its financial instruments by minimising bureaucracy. there are still many areas where errors have been made: employment policy, integration policy for roma minorities, some cases of development aid, and others.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ we are being asked to give discharge but no less than ten agencies have not yet reached an agreement on their headquarters, whereas this should be a priority and a serious assessment should be made of the possibility of bringing together agencies with similar missions and to avoid wasting resources. the lack of visibility and democratic accountability of the agencies, which are generally unknown to the public and vulnerable to outside influence by specialised lobbyists, is also to be deplored. i voted against it.
in writing. this report proposes to grant discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii concerning the commission and the executive agencies. following the commission's internal audit and the court of auditors' report, the report takes stock of the commission's budget implementation. however, i note that the report takes a much more hostile view of the management of the member states than the commission does, for example by criticizing the delegation of ec competence to the member states. the court also criticised the reliability of economic statistics reported by some eu countries. this report thus enables parliament to increase its prerogatives in the examination of expenditure, particularly vis-à-vis the member states, and i have therefore decided against you.
in writing. ‒ the draft report is intended to give discharge to the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013. discharge is the procedure by which the european parliament closes the budgetary year of the european union for a given year. the text criticises in particular the management of policies resulting from shared competence between the european union and the member states, and attempts to insinuate that their 'exclusive' management by the union would increase performance levels. these language elements are part of a strategy of federalisation of the union. the report also sets out the findings of irregularities and fraud in the management of the common agricultural policy and european funds (erdf and esf) without ever engaging the responsibility of the union. the disbursement of european funds to countries whose administrative structure does not allow an efficient absorption rate is a mechanism for diversion and fraud. finally, the union is faced with payment deficits, which undermine its credibility and legitimacy - two essential qualities when giving lessons in budgetary management to many member states. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which gives a snapshot of the commission's and member states' spending on european policies. the text seems to be a continuation of the commission's criticism of the member states' poor performance in budgetary management. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the report thus calls into question policies benefiting from shared management, which is insidiously tantamount to advocating exclusive action by the commission in areas where it still has to combine with shared competence. the text seems to be surprised by the fraud coming from some member states, particularly in the fields of agricultural policy and regional development: nothing new in sum since, by imposing increasingly stifling budgetary austerity requirements on the member states, the commission finds itself confronted with payment errors.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant the discharge for the 2013 financial year to the european commission. although the european court of auditors has delivered a favourable opinion on the legality and regularity of the execution of the accounts by the european commission. concerns are expressed about the shared management of programmes between the european commission and the member states, in particular the regional, agricultural and employment and social funds. the commission should encourage member states to remedy those shortcomings as quickly as possible and thus protect the union budget. for these reasons i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. parliament, as the discharge authority, allows the budget for each year to be implemented. i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the commission and its executive agencies for the financial year 2013 because they have indeed followed the recommendations of the court of auditors and the parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 concerning the commission and the executive agencies. the european parliament's report gives an overview of the expenditure of the commission and the member states on the various eu policies. the report clearly stigmatises the management of the budget by the member states more than by the commission. parliament thus expressed doubts about shared management actions. the average error rate for the general budget is 4.7%. some countries provide incorrect data without being penalized. in some cases, governments have good information but do not correct their mistakes. the report clearly calls for an increased role for parliament in the examination of expenditure and for more controls at all levels. parliament called on the commission to simplify the procedures for its financial instruments by minimising bureaucracy. there are still many areas where errors have been made: employment policy, integration policy for roma minorities, some cases of development aid, and others.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. the ep report gives an overview of the state of play of ec and member state expenditure on the various eu policies. the report clearly stigmatises the management of the budget by the member states more than by the commission. parliament thus expressed doubts about shared management actions. the average error rate for the general budget is 4.7%. some countries provide incorrect data without being punished. in some cases, the states have good information without correcting their mistakes. the report clearly calls for an increased role for parliament in the examination of expenditure and for more controls at all levels. parliament called on the commission to simplify the procedures for its financial instruments by minimising bureaucracy. there are still many areas where errors have been made: employment policy, integration policy for roma minorities, some cases of development aid, and others.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge for the general budget of the european union, which validates the use of resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ these discharge reports are prepared by the court of auditors, which examines the budget of each european institution, agency, undertaking and committee to check how their resources have been used. if the court of auditors considers that the resources have been used properly or are justified, it shall request discharge. if this is not the case, recommendations are made to the institution which is at fault, which must correct them, and the court proposes to postpone its decision. the first thing to note is that we are looking at budgetary discharges in 2015 from 2013 which is more than late and unnecessary. as regards the general budget of the eu, i voted against this grant. the error rate of the european commission remains too high for a european institution, and its procedures are too complex. moreover, several european policies, including agricultural and regional policy, remain problematic because they lack guarantees of legality and regularity. i therefore voted against this grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. the 2013 budget was executed in a particularly chaotic manner. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the report proposes to give the commission and six executive agencies a free hand. however, for the 20th time in a row, the court of auditors has not been able to issue a positive statement of assurance as to the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts, which risks jeopardising the legitimacy of union expenditure and policies. it is amazing that such methods are being used by the very ones who are teaching all the nations. the legality and regularity of this budgetary implementation are therefore in question, and i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii concerning the commission and the executive agencies. following an internal audit by the commission and the court of auditors' report, the report takes stock of the implementation of the commission's and member states' budgets. however, the report is much more hostile to the management of the member states than to that of the commission, criticising for example the commission's delegated competence to member states whose error rate appears to be higher than the commission's exclusive management. the court of auditors also criticises the reliability of the economic statistics reported by some eu countries, especially since they have the means to correct them. this is a testament to the institutional and irreformable problem posed by the management of the european union. but this seems to be a pretext for parliament to increase its prerogatives in the examination of expenditure and to criticise the procedures put in place by the commission and the member states in the framework of agricultural and rural policy. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european commission and 6 executive agencies. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european commission and the executive agencies, a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of the institution and the agencies. the european commission and its executive agencies have demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, they must continue their efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the ep report gives an overview of the state of play of ec and member state expenditure on the various eu policies. the report is based on an internal audit by the commission and on the court of auditors' report on the implementation of the eu general budget. the most problematic sectors remain agricultural and rural policy and regional policy, which have been plagued by payment errors for the 20th consecutive year. there are still many areas where errors have been made: employment policy, integration policy for roma minorities, some cases of development aid, and others. the most frequent cases of fraud are linked to public procurement and conflicts of interest (the report also encourages the ec to look into the fact that some member states do not have legislation on conflicts of interest). the report nevertheless calls for discharge, which seems irresponsible to me. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the following bodies: the european commission and the executive agencies. through this vote of discharge, meps exercise control over the implementation of the european budget, allowing for transparent budget management.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. it provides an overview of the expenditure of the european commission and the member states on the various eu policies. the report is based on an internal audit by the commission and on the court of auditors' report on the implementation of the eu general budget. overall, the report stigmatises the management of the budget by the member states more than by the european commission. the report clearly calls for an increased role for the ep in the examination of expenditure and for more controls at all levels. the most problematic sectors would remain agricultural and rural policy and regional policy. there are also many other areas where errors remain: employment policy, integration policy for roma minorities, some cases of development aid... i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation aims to combat youth unemployment by increasing the pre-financing rate to 30%. the increase in the pre-financing rate would ensure a faster mobilisation of funds and accelerate the implementation of actions undertaken by member states under operational programmes adopted by the commission. it would help in the development of projects, if the text were not too vague. no information is given on which projects will be selected, or whether the programmes will not already be funded by other eu funds. increasing pre-financing will not affect the quality of programmes or their results on youth employment. the intention is good, but the text does not offer a suitable solution to youth unemployment. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text proposes to distribute the esf freely which is already used for many other initiatives and is not unlimited without clear guarantees and remedies.
in writing. this report with a proposal for amendment is intended to amend the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund (esf) in order to increase the amount of the initial pre-financing for the youth employment initiative. the aim is to increase its pre-financing to reach eur 1 billion by 2015. the full amount will be allocated for 2014-2015 instead of being spread over the period 2014-2020. the youth employment initiative (yei) is intended to help combat youth unemployment, particularly in the regions most affected by the scourge. this is the case, for example, in greece or in france, where the unemployment rate among young people often exceeds 50%. unfortunately, this policy is only a palliative and not sustainable, since the eu does not tackle the fundamental problem of austerity and ultraliberal policies. however, i decided to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ the mobilisation of european funds is a real headache for project promoters, especially for some associations that do not have sufficient working capital to advance funding. the proposal for a regulation therefore concerns the increase in the pre-financing rate from 1% to 30% of the overall envelope in order to accelerate the use of the funds provided for by the youth employment initiative (yei). the amount of pre-financing is to reach almost eur 1 billion for 2015. this decision reflects the increasing difficulties faced by project promoters in co-financing their youth employment activities with european funds. the intervention of several actors in employment support policy (departments, regions, states, intercommunities, european union) considerably weakens their effectiveness. the increase in the rate of prefinancing by the yei is therefore welcome in principle, but it should be remembered that only an ambitious and clear national economic, educational and social policy can promote the occupational integration of young people. i abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has led to very high unemployment rates across the union. the younger generation is particularly affected by this scourge. this is why the youth employment initiative was created in 2013. this initiative focuses in particular on young people who are not in education or training in regions of the union where the unemployment rate is above 25%. to make this programme more effective, an additional €1 billion, obtained by increasing pre-financing from 1% to 30%, will be paid directly to the initiative. this will enable projects to increase youth employment to be financed more quickly. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i preferred to abstain on this text. the fight against youth unemployment is and must remain a priority, but i could not vote for a text that was too vague and which, by its inaccuracies, risked increasing the flow of incoherent and ineffective funding. increasing the pre-financing rate of the yei from 1% to 30% will certainly increase the funds, but it does not ensure consistent criteria as to how projects will be selected, when funds will be available or what arrangements will be made in the event of failure or abandonment of the programme. in short, while the initial inspiration to support social policy in this period of austerity was good, the text does not live up to this ambition.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to increase the amounts of funding initially allocated to the youth employment initiative set up under the european social fund (esf) to promote youth employment and provide support for young people without jobs and training opportunities. announced by the heads of state and government more than a year ago, the youth initiative is intended to provide a rapid response to the problem of youth unemployment in europe. nevertheless, member states face difficulties in financing the implementation of operations under this initiative. considering that there is a need to respond rapidly to youth unemployment on the one hand and to the difficulties of member states in financing this initiative on the other hand, i voted in favour of this report, as amended by the european parliament.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the new european commission is showing its commitment to youth employment through concrete actions. this legislative proposal is welcome. its adoption will allow for additional funds to be released in 2015 to support the youth employment initiative (yei). the amount of pre-financing initially provided for the yei will thus be increased by 30%. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ €1 billion of eu funds to help member states put up to 650 000 young people into work will be delivered in 2015 thanks to the amendments to the european social fund provisions approved by the european parliament on wednesday 29 april. the european pre-financing of projects which create jobs for young people in the regions most affected by unemployment will increase from 1% to 30%. the number of unemployed people aged 15-25 who are not in education or training is growing alarmingly, particularly in the member states which have the greatest difficulty in obtaining european programme funding. therefore, the early allocation of funds is of paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation aims to combat youth unemployment by increasing the pre-financing rate to 30%. the increase in the pre-financing rate would ensure a faster mobilisation of funds and accelerate the implementation of actions undertaken by member states under operational programmes adopted by the commission. it would help in the development of projects, if the text were not too vague. no information is given on which projects will be selected, or whether the programmes will not already be funded by other eu funds. increasing pre-financing will not affect the quality of programmes or their results on youth employment. the intention is good, but the text does not offer a suitable solution to youth unemployment. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier's report which aims to release €1 billion to finance projects to combat youth unemployment in regions where it exceeds 25%. the report foresees that european pre-financing for projects that create jobs for young people in these regions will increase from 1% to 30%. with this report, parliament is sending a strong message to the heads of state and government to take action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the pre-financing of programmes supported by the european youth employment initiative (eye). this report calls for an increase of the initial pre-financing rate paid in 2015 to the operational programmes supported by this initiative from 1% to 30%. the report will thus make it possible to release €1 billion to finance projects to combat the current scourge of youth unemployment. i welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ having already had the opportunity to do so in the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted again in favour of the report by my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund to increase the amount of initial pre-financing paid to operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative. the increase in the ceiling for the amount of prefinancing from 1% to 30% is a functional, practical and useful policy to support youth employment and to make better use of the european funds allocated to the territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report calling for an increase in the pre-financing of the youth employment initiative (yei), which was entrusted to my epp colleague elisabeth morin-chartier. this initiative will increase the european pre-financing of projects which create jobs for young people in the regions most affected by unemployment from 1% to 30%. in adopting this report, the european parliament has once again shown its determination to combat youth unemployment in europe, while sending a clear and strong signal to heads of state and government to take action more quickly.
in writing. ‒ the commission's youth employment initiative is a €6 billion programme for unemployed and untrained young europeans. 7 million of them are currently unemployed and out of school or training. unfortunately, this programme is not used enough because it is too complicated, it does not have enough funds (it is estimated that 21 billion would be needed) and there is no guarantee that it will be maintained once the funds are used. the revision introduced by this report, which i have followed for my group, should make it possible to release eur 1 billion immediately for these young people and encourage the states to set up new support programmes. i therefore supported the rapid adoption of this text. however, i remain committed to new rights for young people to put an end to the precarious situation of young people and i call for the creation of a european public service for training, information, guidance, integration and support for young people in their professional careers.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because, although it has a worthy objective, promoting youth employment, this text seems to me far too vague. i also doubt that it will create jobs.
in writing. the european union wants the fight against youth unemployment to be a priority, as 7 million young europeans are out of work. this is based on the youth employment initiative programme which is part of the european social fund. the aim is to finance member states which support the regions most affected by the phenomenon. the aim of this amendment to the regulation is to speed up the mobilisation of funds for 2015 in order to act more efficiently by benefiting from €1 billion. this will facilitate assistance to member states which are having difficulties in disbursing funds. this gives the impression that there will be more results because more money for the states. the report is very vague on the projects supported and their financing. it is not just a question of releasing a billion, but also of knowing what it is going to be used for and what it is not. so we can doubt the effectiveness of the measure.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin abstained on this text. although this seems to be a positive development, the proposal is far too vague on the arrangements and remedies in place and offers no guarantee of reimbursement of funds in the event of abandonment of projects. in addition, the european social fund (esf) is already being used to finance many other projects and is not unlimited. finally, it is impossible for us to know whether these esf pre-financed programmes are not already receiving support from other european or national programmes. this lack of information prevents us from voting in favour and we prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in light of the high levels of youth unemployment in the eu, the youth employment initiative (yei) was set up to provide support for the 7 million young europeans who are not in employment, education or training (neet) in the regions most affected by youth unemployment. the isj is integrated into the programming of the european social fund (esf). but it is clear that this mechanism has not been sufficiently used by the member states. one reason for this misuse is the lack of public funds to launch projects to offer young people a job, a traineeship or training. the member states most affected by youth unemployment are also those which have the greatest difficulty in finding co-financing. to enable them to launch these key projects, the european commission has decided to release €1 billion, increasing the pre-financing of operational programmes for 2015. it is an admission of failure and an acknowledgement of the role of political incentives in employment. this kensitism must be encouraged. for once it is not about cutting budgets, i vote for it.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to amend the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund in order to increase the amount of initial pre-financing for the youth employment initiative. the latter is aimed at combating youth unemployment in the regions most affected by it. the aim is to increase its pre-financing to reach €1 billion by 2015. the full amount will be allocated for 2014-15, instead of being spread over the period 2014-2020. this urgency is largely due to the austerity policies imposed by the european union, which undermine any possibility for member states to release funds to support employment policy. however, i decided to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the amendment of the european social fund regulation. as recent statistics show that youth unemployment is on the rise again in france, this will make it possible to mobilise €1 billion to finance projects to combat youth unemployment in regions where it exceeds 25%.
in writing. ‒ when the european parliament steps on the accelerator, things move forward: european pre-financing for projects that create jobs for young people in the regions most affected by unemployment will rise from 1% to 30%! we have managed to put aside our differences and unite our wills to be effective. our objective is simple: to enable real european prefinancing of field projects to combat youth unemployment. member states to bring forward employment projects as soon as possible. the european parliament, by voting in favour of this increase in prefinancing from 1 to 30%, is addressing the catastrophic situation of youth unemployment in europe; we are in a race against time, more than 7 million young europeans between 15 and 24 are unemployed. our challenge was twofold: to gather a very large majority and to do so in record time. the bet is off. this text, adopted in less than three months, is a clear signal to the heads of state and government to take action: europe will not let young people down!
in writing. the youth employment initiative was set up to help seven million young people who are out of work, education or training in the regions most affected by youth unemployment. the member states have not taken advantage of this mechanism, mainly because of the lack of public investment in projects providing employment for young people. the resolution thus allows the prefinancing rate to be increased from 1% to 30% in order to facilitate the drawdown of this fund. i voted in favour of this report because i wanted to give young people in difficulty the greatest possible opportunity.
in writing. ‒ any measure to promote youth employment is of interest, but the text is far too vague, with no clear guarantees or remedies. before increasing prefinancing, we should start by checking that it is being used for effective and useful programmes. the eu's budgetary situation is dire and this spending, which is little or not controlled, is inadmissible. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ today more than 7 million young people aged 15-24 across europe are affected by unemployment. young people today need to gain work experience, but this is becoming increasingly difficult. the union has decided to respond to the lack of opportunities for young professionals by launching the youth employment initiative. this measure offers a concrete and financial response to these problems and will help the regions most affected by youth unemployment - where the rate is above 25%. the european parliament adopted by a large majority the amendment to the european social fund regulation on the increase in the pre-financing of the initiative. i am glad to have voted in favour of this text, which provides for the release of eur 1 billion to combat youth unemployment and facilitate their integration into the labour market. in particular, france will receive 90 million more than planned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the amendment of the european social fund regulation concerning the increase in the pre-financing of the youth employment initiative. the text aims to release €1 billion to finance projects to combat youth unemployment in regions where it exceeds 25%. the european pre-financing of projects creating jobs for young people in regions heavily affected by unemployment will thus be increased from 1% to 30%. with 7 million young people aged 15-24 unemployed in the european union, it was important to act quickly by voting for this increase in the youth employment initiative.
in writing. ‒ the european union has made the fight against youth unemployment a priority (nearly 7 million young people are unemployed in europe). the youth employment initiative (yei) is part of the esf programmes and is designed to support the most affected regions by financing projects set up by member states to help young people find employment. at first sight, this text is positive. but it's still too vague. too little information is provided: it is not known how projects will be selected, how and when funds will be available, what arrangements will be made in the event of failure or abandonment of the programme, and whether these will not already be funded by other european or national funds. the esf also finances a wide range of other initiatives. so i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the repeal of council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. it is a question of deleting a superfluous text, which no longer found any use. the competent body in this field is now the world trade organisation. the arguments which are not covered by the latter are now included in the agreements signed between the states. it was therefore necessary to vote for this repeal in order to make it more legible.
in writing. ‒ council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries applies to countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements. this document included many safeguard measures when textile imports from a country increased sharply but these measures can no longer be applied as these imports are now covered by the wto or signed association or free trade agreements. the eu had bilateral agreements on trade in textile products only with russia and serbia. with russia having joined the wto and serbia having signed an association agreement with the eu, this regulation is no longer useful: it was therefore necessary to repeal this regulation in order to promote legal certainty.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to repeal council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries. this regulation concerns imports from countries with which the eu has concluded bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements. however, in view of the growing number of wto member countries (including russia with which the eu now has bilateral agreements) or new association agreements (including serbia), the provisions of this regulation no longer apply and are obsolete. this repeal is in fact a clarification of eu law aimed at repealing a regulation that has lost all usefulness and legal force. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. in view of the transfer of the management of this type of import to the wto, this regulation is no longer useful and should therefore be repealed. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this repeal because it was simply an obsolete provision. the regulation provided for safeguard measures on imports of certain textile products, but these imports are now covered by the wto. to be precise, the regulation covered in particular our bilateral agreements with russia, now a member of the wto, and with serbia, whose cooperation with the european union is now governed by an association agreement. it was therefore only common sense to vote in favour of repealing this regulation.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the repeal of regulation (ec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. the main purpose of the regulation was to impose quantitative restrictions on textiles from russia, serbia and china. following russia's accession to the world trade organisation in 2012, the entry into force of the association agreement between serbia and the union in 2013 and the end of the quota regime with regard to china established in 2005 and 2013, this legislation has lost its raison d'être. for these reasons, and considering that it is necessary in the name of the principle of smart regulation to repeal the texts not applied, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the adoption of this text allows the abolition of the common arrangements for imports of textiles from third countries with which the union has concluded bilateral agreements. following russia's accession to the world trade organisation and the signing of the association agreement with serbia, the union no longer has bilateral relations covered by the 1993 regulation. the outdated regulations must then be repealed.
in writing. ‒ the report presented to the european parliament endorses a legal development. it therefore seems to me consistent and appropriate, in the interests of clarity and legal certainty, to vote in favour of this text which repeals a regulation which no longer has any reason to be maintained in the european legal order, as serbia has concluded an association agreement with the european union covering the areas concerned.
in writing. ‒ the report presented to the european parliament endorses a legal development. it therefore seems to me consistent and appropriate, in the interests of clarity and legal certainty, to vote in favour of this text which repeals a regulation which no longer has any reason to be maintained in the european legal order, as serbia has concluded an association agreement with the european union covering the areas concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. with this report, parliament endorses the european commission's proposal for greater legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the repeal of the council regulation on the common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements. in view of the developments in the trade agreements concluded by the european union, this regulation had become obsolete.
in writing. ‒ this council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries applies to countries with which the european community has concluded bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements. this document included many safeguard measures when textile imports from a country increased sharply but these measures can no longer be applied as these imports are now covered by the wto for the majority of countries, for the other countries by the texts of the signed association or free trade agreements. the eu had bilateral agreements on trade in textile products only with russia and serbia. with russia joining the wto and serbia signing an association agreement with the eu, this regulation is no longer useful. it is therefore necessary to abolish it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ for reasons of legal certainty, i voted in favour of this text because it aims to repeal a regulation which no longer applies to any country.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to repeal a regulation which is no longer relevant. the safeguard measures provided for in the original regulation are replaced by agreements between states. the aim of this report is to promote legal certainty, so i am voting in favour.
in writing. - dominique martin voted for this repeal. this 1993 regulation only concerned textile products from third countries and no longer needs to be because the import measures it guaranteed are now covered by the world trade organisation (for the majority of countries), association agreements or free trade agreements. in addition, the eu had no bilateral agreements for trade in textile products except with russia and serbia: russia has since joined the wto and the eu has signed an association agreement with serbia. this regulation is therefore no longer necessary and we are in favour of its repeal.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to repeal council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries with which the european community has concluded specific agreements. in recent years, the european union has maintained bilateral agreements on trade in textile products only with russia and serbia. following the accession of russia to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 lost its main purpose. however, this regulation allowed the imposition of quantitative limits on imports of certain textile products and thus a certain degree of protectionism. the agreements which replace it, on the contrary, allow the free movement of goods and put the european textile sector at risk. i vote against
in writing. ‒ this 1993 regulation only concerned textile products from third countries and no longer needs to be because the import measures it guaranteed are now covered by the world trade organisation (for most countries), association agreements or free trade agreements. in addition, the eu had no bilateral agreements for trade in textile products except with russia and serbia: russia has since joined the wto and the eu has signed an association agreement with serbia. this regulation therefore no longer has any place, so i voted for its repeal.
in writing. this report proposes to repeal council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries. the latter concerns imports from countries with which the eu has concluded bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements. however, the eu maintained bilateral agreements only with russia and serbia. in view of the growing number of wto member countries (including russia) and the new association agreements signed (including serbia), the provisions of this regulation, such as safeguard measures, no longer apply to any country and have therefore become obsolete. this is a clarification of eu law aimed at repealing a regulation that has lost all usefulness and legal force. i believe that legal certainty is an overriding reason of general interest and takes precedence over other considerations, so i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which merely revises regulation (ec) no 517/94 of 7 march 1994 on the common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific import arrangements of the union. this revision is part of a harmonisation procedure following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it aims to ensure that the old decision-making procedure applicable in commercial policy matters is compatible with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ it is a question of abolishing a regulation which no longer concerns any country. any legal simplification is welcome and i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament recently repealed regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. i supported that decision. this regulation no longer corresponds to the present context and other texts will provide a better framework for the imports concerned.
in writing. this report concerns the repeal of regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common organization of the market in textile products originating in third countries. this regulation applied to third countries with which the eu had concluded bilateral agreements on trade in textile products. in recent years, the eu had maintained bilateral agreements only with russia and serbia. with russia's accession to the wto and the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, the regulation lost its purpose. two elements of the regulation are still used but were transferred and inserted in the revision of the textiles regulation. i therefore voted in favour of this report which provides for the repeal of regulation 3030/93 in order to promote legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to repeal a regulation that has become unnecessary and obsolete. i am voting for it in so far as its repeal will promote legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i would like to remind you that the european union cannot substitute itself for the prerogatives of the member states. on the contrary, it must respect the national sovereignty of each of them. this text, however, infringes state powers: the member states must conduct their trade policy alone. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i believe that each member state should be in control of its own trade policy, so i voted against this text.
in writing. this report concerns the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway concerning the codification in the form of a permanent instrument of council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973. this is therefore a simple clarification measure. this codification is done at constant rate, i.e. without any change in the substance. unfortunately, i object to the substance of this regulation as it concerns the trade policy of the eu member states and i object to the eu going beyond a competence which should be the sovereignty of the states. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this codification of the regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and norway includes conventional measures of international trade law. i voted against these provisions because each member state must remain in control of its trade policy.
in writing. ‒ the draft report concerns this regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of the council of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. this type of regulation is a classic legal tool in international trade law, but it must fall under the sovereign competence of a member state and not the european union. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ one of the wishes of the european co-legislators is to make european legislation simpler and more accessible so that it can be applied as effectively as possible. the codification is a means of achieving this objective. i voted in favour of this report on the codification of the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report, which is just another legal codification in favour of dismantling the sovereignty of the member states in matters of trade policy. the report approved the codification of council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. i am aware that article 3 of the teu provides that trade policy is an exclusive competence of the union, but i cannot support this attack on the interests of each member state.
in writing. the regulation concerns the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and its norwegian partner. the proposal is limited to a simple codification of the existing texts, without any impact on the substance. i am therefore in favour of any measure which will help to improve the understanding of european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway. i would like to remind you that the european union cannot replace the prerogatives of the member states, but that it must respect the national sovereignty of each of them. this text, however, infringes state powers: the member states must conduct their trade policy alone.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the codification of council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. it has already been amended several times and is intended to consolidate the various texts and to change their form for the purpose of codification. i therefore support this text, which is merely an exercise in codifying positive law without any substantive changes. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway. i would like to remind you that the european union cannot replace the prerogatives of the member states, but that it must respect the national sovereignty of each of them. this text, however, infringes state powers: the member states must conduct their trade policy alone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on safeguard measures in the framework of the agreement between the eec and the kingdom of norway. in the context of the effort to simplify european law, the aim is to codify a number of existing provisions on the subject, in order to integrate them into a single, clearer and simpler text. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with norway. the report is a mere codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. in the interests of clarity and transparency, the procedure known as 'formal codification' makes it possible to merge all the amendments and revisions to a text without altering its substance.
in writing. ‒ this is a willingness of the european union to impose safeguard measures on member states without the states having given their views. we believe that each member state, in the name of its sovereignty, must remain in control of its trade policy and must be able to decide whether or not to put safeguards in place in its agreements. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to codify council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated therein; it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and therefore merely groups them together by making only the formal changes required by the actual codification operation. it is this regulation which gives the commission full power to take conservative measures in the case of export aids which have a direct and immediate impact on trade. i am opposed to the commission's unchecked control of this area and i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ this is a willingness of the european union to impose safeguard measures on member states without the states having given their views. we believe that each member state, in the name of its sovereignty, must remain in control of its trade policy and must be able to decide whether or not to put safeguards in place in its agreements. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the duda report on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway concerns the codification in constant form of council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973. it is therefore a clarification measure to meet the objectives of accessibility and intelligibility of the law. furthermore, this codification is done at constant rate, i.e. without any change in the substance. the substance of this regulation is highly questionable, since it concerns the commercial policy of the eu member states. we are opposed to the legitimacy of the commission in conducting trade policy. this is a serious attack on the sovereignty of states. i therefore put the substance first and decided to vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which simply codifies council regulation (eec) no 1692/73 of 25 june 1973 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. ‒ once again, we are being asked to vote on a text that seriously undermines national sovereignty. in this case, it is trade policy, which each member state should be able to control. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the codification of the safeguard regulation in the agreement with norway. this interinstitutional procedure simplifies and clarifies the existing regulation.
in writing. ‒ the report before us approves the codification of a legal instrument on the stabilisation and association agreements between the european union and albania. this act would confirm the european union's trade and neighbourhood policy. i challenge this policy because it foreshadows the political enlargement of an organisation which is not based on national realities or the interests of the peoples of europe. i do not want to endorse this policy, which is not being seriously monitored or evaluated, and i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this stabilisation and association agreement defines the relations between the european union and albania with a view to establishing a free trade area between the eu and albania: it is, of course, the legal basis for the implementation of the accession process. apart from the problems of widespread corruption and organised crime which have plagued albania for so many years, how can we continue negotiations with this country whose prime minister has recently expressed his wish for a greater albania with the accession of kosovo? this provocation, edi rama did it publicly, in front of the cameras, in the presence of mr. hashim thaçi, former head of the terrorist organization kla. as i have said in this house, the independence of kosovo - the historic birthplace of the serbian nation - is still not recognised by five eu countries: cyprus, spain, greece, romania and slovakia. this statement by the albanian prime minister has given me an additional reason to oppose this stabilisation and association agreement.
in writing. ‒ this stabilisation and association agreement (saa) defines the relations between the european union and albania, in the context of the implementation of the stabilisation and association process. it establishes a free trade area between the eu and albania. it is the prerequisite for albania's future accession to the eu. the agreement allows, for example, the importation of albanian fishery products into the eu at reduced customs rates. i therefore voted against this report rejecting the endless enlargement of the eu even though we are undergoing an austerity cure and are still unable to upgrade the last countries to join.
in writing. ‒ this agreement defines the relations between the european union and albania, in the context of the implementation of the stabilisation and association process. it establishes a free trade area between the union and albania and serves as a basis for the implementation of the accession process. in particular, it provides that fishery products originating in albania may be imported into the union, within the limits of tariff quotas, at reduced customs rates . i voted against this stabilisation and association agreement with albania. it is a step towards a senseless enlargement of the european union which we reject.
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement covers relations between the european union and albania, and establishes a free trade area between the european union and albania. that agreement provides that fishery products originating in albania may be imported into the union, within the limits of tariff quotas, at reduced customs rates. this agreement is yet another step in the enlargement of the union. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ codification makes it possible to compile certain texts of european legislation dealing with the same subject in order to simplify and make them more accessible. this report concerns the codification of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and the republic of albania. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this stabilisation and association agreement with albania should be called a destabilisation agreement. the eu's new push for enlargement at the expense of the sovereignty and interests of the european peoples, the agreement must serve as the basis for a process of accession on the terms dictated by the european union in defiance of albania's economic and political reality. this country, which is undermined by corruption and mafia networks of all kinds, will also have to reform its institutions in accordance with the wishes of brussels: a real camouflet for sovereignty. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the codification of council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and albania, of the other part, and the interim agreement between the european community and albania. it has already been amended several times and is intended to consolidate the various texts and to change their form for the purpose of codification. i therefore support this text, which is merely an exercise in codifying positive law without any substantive changes. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the regulation concerns the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and the republic of albania. parliament voted to codify it, which does not entail any substantial changes. it does, however, provide greater clarity for european legislation.
in writing. ‒ the report before us approves the codification of a legal instrument on the stabilisation and association agreements between the european union and albania. this act would confirm the european union's trade and neighbourhood policy, which i dispute as prefiguring the political enlargement of an organisation which is not based on national realities or the interests of the peoples of europe. i do not want to endorse this policy, which is not being seriously monitored and evaluated, so i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report before us approves the codification of a legal instrument on the stabilisation and association agreements between the european union and albania. this act would confirm the european union's trade and neighbourhood policy, which i dispute as prefiguring the political enlargement of an organisation which is not based on national realities or the interests of the peoples of europe. i do not want to endorse this policy, which is not being seriously monitored and evaluated, so i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on certain procedures for the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the republic of albania. in the context of the effort to simplify european law, the aim is to codify a number of existing provisions on the subject, in order to integrate them into a single, clearer and simpler text. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to codify the council regulation on certain procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and albania. in the interests of clarity and transparency, the procedure known as 'formal codification' makes it possible to merge all the amendments and revisions to a text without changing its substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this stabilisation and association agreement because it opens the way for albania's accession to the european union. i think that this is a foolish enlargement of the union.
in writing. ‒ this stabilisation and association agreement will define relations between the european union and albania and establish a free trade area. under the guise of trade negotiations, the eu is in fact preparing the ground for future integration of albania. we think this enlargement is absurd and dominique martin voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify parts of the rules of the eu-albania trade agreement and the stabilisation and association agreement. it should be remembered that these agreements with the western balkans are aimed at imposing free trade with the countries concerned. when the student is wise he gets preferential tariffs for importing his goods into the eu. the fisheries and agriculture sectors therefore account for a large part of the consolidated text. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. i am therefore voting against this report, even though it is only a technical report.
in writing. it is a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) which defines the relations between the european union and albania, in the framework of the implementation of the stabilisation and association process, and aims to create a free trade area between the eu and albania. it is also a prerequisite for albania's future accession to the eu. it promotes certain albanian imports (particularly fishery products) which benefit from reduced customs duties. i am opposed to any further enlargement, and particularly to those countries with very low per capita incomes, and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which simply codifies council regulation (ec) no 1616/2006 of 23 october 2006 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of albania, of the other part, and the interim agreement between the european community and the republic of albania. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. ‒ it is incomprehensible that the european union only thinks about enlargement when so many things are not working properly. i am absolutely opposed to this step of enlargement in favour of albania and therefore i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the union has concluded several stabilisation and association agreements with several balkan states, notably albania. these agreements are part of a perspective of rapprochement, rather than enlargement. i voted for the codification of this regulation, which will make the text clearer.
in writing. ‒ this agreement defines the relations between the european union and albania, in the context of the implementation of the stabilisation and association process. it establishes a free trade area between the eu and albania and serves as a basis for the implementation of the accession process. i am of course opposed to any further steps in the accession process for this particular state and for any other state in general.
in writing. ‒ the legal codification that continues the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina strengthens a mechanism that i challenge. the agreement favours an expansion of free trade relations but also requires a follow-up of administrative and commercial cooperation between the two parties. the european parliament was not able to assess either this cooperation or compliance with the provisions laid down in the existing regulation. this lack of transparency and accurate feedback is not acceptable. finally, the stabilisation and association agreements are clearly a method of the european union to extend its political influence and consolidate a poorly constructed neighbourhood policy. in view of these inaccuracies and the commission's hesitation in its trade and neighbourhood policy, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the political, economic and geopolitical situation in bosnia-herzegovina is particularly delicate: i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in june 2003, bosnia and herzegovina was granted the status of potential candidate for eu membership and despite the association and stabilisation agreements of june 2008, the situation in bosnia and herzegovina remains a matter of grave concern. the political, economic and geopolitical situation in bosnia and herzegovina is complex: corruption, organised crime, problems with minorities... i therefore voted against this stabilisation and association agreement.
in writing. ‒ in june 2003, bosnia and herzegovina was selected as a potential candidate for eu membership at the thessaloniki european summit. since then, several agreements have entered into force between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina. i voted against this step towards enlargement of the eu to include this country, which would pose particular difficulties. the political, economic and geopolitical situation in bosnia and herzegovina is very delicate.
in writing. ‒ the draft report deals with the stabilisation agreement on trade and accompanying measures between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina. it is intended, in particular, to facilitate the issuing of visas. the agreement comes after the country was identified as a potential candidate for eu membership at the thessaloniki european summit in june 2003. the political, economic and geopolitical situation in bosnia is particularly delicate and accession to the union would only reignite tensions between the various croat, serb and muslim minorities. the policy pursued by the union in ukraine shows that the technocrats in brussels are not afraid of escalating civil wars. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ codification of legislative texts is a kind of compilation of different european regulations dealing with the same subject. the aim of codification is to simplify european legislation and make it more accessible. in this particular case we are talking about codification on the application of the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community and bosnia and herzegovina. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this stabilisation agreement is to integrate bosnia and herzegovina into the european union, and this is completely irresponsible. the enlargement fanatics seem to be deliberately ignoring the economic and political reality of this state. the ideology is therefore to integrate into the european union a country where 45% of the population is unemployed and where a third of the population works in the public administration; the european union is not only a country of 300 citizens fighting jihad in syria, but also the scene of a tragic islamist attack in zvornik yesterday morning, which killed a policeman and two other people, all of whom belonged to the serbian minority, a serbian minority which, it must be said, is particularly affected by the political and economic instability in the country. because i am a realist, i believe that you cannot integrate into such a special international organisation as the eu unless you are strongly built up nationally. i therefore voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to codify regulation (ec) no 594/2008 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part. it has already been amended several times and is intended to consolidate the various texts and to change their form for the purpose of codification. i therefore support this text, which is merely an exercise in codifying positive law without any substantive changes. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the regulation aims to codify the legislation concerning relations between the european communities and bosnia and herzegovina. this simple codification of existing texts does not alter the substance. it does, however, make european legislation more readable.
in writing. ‒ the legal codification that continues the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina strengthens a mechanism that i challenge. the agreement favours an expansion of free trade relations but also requires a follow-up of administrative and trade cooperation between the two parties. the european parliament was not able to assess this cooperation or compliance with the provisions laid down in the existing regulation. this lack of transparency and accurate feedback is not acceptable. finally, the stabilisation and association agreements are clearly a method of the european union to extend its political influence and consolidate a poorly constructed neighbourhood policy. in view of these inaccuracies and the commission's hesitation in its trade and neighbourhood policy, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on certain procedures for the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina. in the context of the effort to simplify european law, the aim is to codify a number of existing provisions on the subject, in order to integrate them into a single, clearer and simpler text. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to codify the regulation on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part. in the interests of clarity and transparency, the procedure known as 'formal codification' makes it possible to merge all the amendments and revisions to a text without changing its substance.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the suspension of trade preferences granted to bosnia. in 2009, bosnia signed an association agreement with the european union which grants it trade preferences (reduced or no customs duties), which were extended until 2020 to allow bosnia time to adapt to the end of these trade preferences. in the meantime, a regional agreement for central europe is signed but bosnia refuses to align itself with its less favourable terms. the proposed text seeks to suspend the previous trade preferences granted to bosnia until it accepts the new agreement. this would have the effect of liberalizing trade in 15 agricultural products which are sensitive to bosnia and would thus put bosnia's agriculture in great danger. in order not to support this blackmail and to maintain trade preferences for bosnia, i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in 2009, the eu introduced exceptional trade measures for the balkan countries by regulation no 1215/2009. this regulation shall apply until 31 december 2015. since then, association agreements have been signed with all countries except bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo. the accession of croatia to the eu changed the details of the eu agreement. that country is showing ill will and is not respecting the practical aspects of the agreement. the text calls on bosnia and herzegovina to play its part and to respect its commitments. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by establishing the list of the beneficiaries of the preferential trade measures. voting in favour of the eu's accession to the european union
in writing. ‒ i voted against this stabilisation and association agreement because it opens the way for bosnia and herzegovina to join the european union. i think that this is a foolish enlargement of the union.
in writing. - i vote against it. i am opposed to any enlargement of the european union. the member states are already facing many difficulties. allowing new countries to join in the current economic climate is not a good measure. this is especially true in a country that is already experiencing considerable economic fragility and where there is still a form of protest and questioning of political leaders.
in writing. ‒ this stabilisation and association agreement, like the previous one, prepares the ground for bosnia and herzegovina's future accession to the european union. the political, economic and geopolitical situation in bosnia-herzegovina remains too delicate to consider its integration into the european union. dominique martin therefore voted against the agreement.
in writing. ‒ codification consists of grouping normative texts of various kinds into collections concerning a field. it aims at simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this proposal is to codify certain procedures for the application of the trade agreement and the association agreement with bosnia-herzegovina. it should be remembered that the association agreements are intended to impose free trade with the countries concerned. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. so even if it is only a technical report, i am voting against.
in writing. this stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia and herzegovina is inappropriate. after being granted the status of potential candidate for accession to the european union in 2003, and despite the association and stabilisation agreements of june 2008, the political, economic and geopolitical situation of the country remains fragile, with widespread corruption, organised crime still too present, etc. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which simply codifies council regulation (ec) no 594/2008 of 16 june 2008 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part, and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the european community, of the one part, and bosnia and herzegovina, of the other part. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. ‒ the situation in bosnia and herzegovina does not make it a suitable candidate for the european union, which would do better to take stock of previous enlargements rather than wanting to continue along this path. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ the union has concluded several stabilisation and association agreements with several balkan states, including bosnia and herzegovina. these agreements are part of a perspective of rapprochement, rather than enlargement. i have spoken in favour of the codification of this regulation in order to simplify and clarify the legislative framework for trade relations with the third country and the necessary accompanying measures.
in writing. ‒ exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application with regard to bosnia and herzegovina i voted in favour of the regulation introducing exceptional trade measures in the framework of the stabilisation and association agreements with the western balkans and suspending the application of the interim agreement with bosnia and herzegovina. these agreements correspond to trade preferences and easy access to the union market for most products, which we hope will contribute to the stability of the region and the future european integration of the balkans. we have made some changes to the original texts, including the introduction of a key human rights clause: from now on, trade preferences will be suspended in the event of violations of fundamental principles. our regulation also addresses the particular situation of bosnia-herzegovina, which has not yet agreed to adapt its trade agreement to the accession of croatia to the eu, unlike all the other countries concerned. in the absence of such amendment, the trade preferences shall be suspended until 1 january 2016.
in writing. ‒ this agreement defines the relations between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina, in the context of the implementation of the stabilisation and association process. the agreement also serves as a basis for the implementation of the accession process. i am of course opposed to any further steps in the accession process of any state.
in writing. ‒ the report on which the european parliament is to vote is intended to vote in favour of the codified text of the regulation on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the text provides for the monitoring of administrative cooperation and possible fraud. parliament has not been informed of these specific points. it seems to me therefore unjustified to support the strengthening of a legal framework which also validates a bad foreign and trade policy of the union. finally, this agreement relates in part to the fisheries sector and it is not acceptable to strengthen free trade in this area without studying the consequences for union producers. for these reasons i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this stabilisation and association agreement, which is the prelude to a new enlargement which i do not think is desirable for either the eu member states or macedonia.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 153/2002 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, and the interim agreement between the european community and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the political and economic situation in macedonia is also particularly worrying. last february, the eu was still worried about a failed coup attempt in macedonia. many press articles have reported on the institutional crisis in which this country is plunged: corruption, institutions paralysed by an arms race between the majority and the opposition, ... in addition, greece opposes the very name of this country. athens considers the name macedonia to be of hellenic heritage. finally, the unemployment rate, which has reached 28% of the active population, is a further factor in a country which has become one of the main transit routes for illegal immigration, especially to germany. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the motion for a resolution is to approve the proposal for the codification of council regulation (ec) no 994/98 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. it is a mere formal text which does not alter the substance of the legal regime for state aid, which i strongly oppose. the scheme constitutes a major obstacle to the implementation of an ambitious economic patriotism policy since it lays down a general principle of prohibition of state aid. although there are many exceptions, they nevertheless constitute a real legal headache which hinders the sometimes beneficial intervention of public policies. i therefore voted against this text in order to denounce the principle of the legal regime for aid to the coal industry.
in writing. ‒ codification of legislative texts is a kind of compilation of different european regulations that deal with the same subject. the aim is to simplify and make european legislation more accessible. i voted in favour of this report on the consolidation of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is still part of the same euro-fanatic logic of enlargement at all costs. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is suffering from political instability which makes the prospect of its accession highly unlikely: contested election results, corruption scandals involving zoan zaev, leader of the social democrats and the main opposition figure to the government, not to mention the conflict between this state and greece, a member of the european union. in these circumstances it is irresponsible to continue to consider the accession of this state to the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to codify council regulation (ec) no 153/2002 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, and the interim agreement between the european community and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it has already been amended several times, and it is only a question of grouping the various texts and changing their form for the purpose of codification. i therefore support this text, which is merely an exercise in codifying positive law without any substantive changes. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the regulation concerns the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. it is limited to a simple codification of existing texts, without any impact on their substance. i voted in favour of this text because codification makes european legislation clearer and more readable.
in writing. ‒ the legal codification that continues the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina strengthens a mechanism that i challenge. the agreement favours an expansion of free trade relations but also requires a follow-up of administrative and trade cooperation between the two parties. the european parliament was not able to assess this cooperation or compliance with the provisions laid down in the existing regulation. this lack of transparency and accurate feedback is not acceptable. finally, the stabilisation and association agreements are clearly a method of the european union to extend its political influence and consolidate a poorly constructed neighbourhood policy. in view of these inaccuracies and the commission's hesitation in its trade and neighbourhood policy, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report on which the european parliament is to vote is intended to vote in favour of the codified text of the regulation on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and macedonia. the text provides for the monitoring of administrative cooperation and possible fraud. parliament has not been informed of these specific points. it seems to me therefore unjustified to support the strengthening of a legal framework which also validates a bad foreign and trade policy of the union. finally, this agreement relates in part to the fisheries sector and it is not acceptable to strengthen free trade in this area without studying the consequences for union producers. for these reasons i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part. in the context of the effort to simplify european law, the aim is to codify a number of existing provisions on the subject, in order to integrate them into a single, clearer and simpler text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to codify the regulation on certain procedures for the application of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. in the interests of clarity and transparency, the procedure known as 'formal codification' makes it possible to merge all the amendments and revisions to a text without changing its substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this stabilisation and association agreement because it opens the way for macedonia's accession to the european union. i think that this is a foolish enlargement of the union.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against this agreement. as in the case of albania, this stabilisation and association agreement will define relations between the european union and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and establish a free trade area. under the guise of trade negotiations, the eu is in fact preparing the ground for the future integration of macedonia, a senseless enlargement which we reject.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify parts of the rules of the trade agreement and the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom). it should be remembered that these agreements with the western balkans are aimed at imposing free trade with the countries concerned. when the student is wise he gets preferential tariffs for importing his goods into the eu. this codification therefore devotes a significant part of its resources to the fisheries and cattle farming sectors. these technocratic procedures of 'codification' are not only undemocratic but also prevent europe from practicing the solidarity-based protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. fyrom was the first balkan country to sign a stabilisation and association agreement with the eu in 2001. today, the unemployment rate is 30%, and the minimum wage is 130 euros. as social inequalities increase, opinion polls in favour of european integration are declining. so even though it is only a technical report, i am voting against it.
in writing. the proposal on the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia aims to codify council regulation (ec) no 153/2002 concerning certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, and the interim agreement between the european community and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the eu therefore envisages signing agreements with countries that are at least politically and economically unstable. for example, macedonia was the target of a failed coup attempt last february. corruption is widespread, and political sclerosis is further perpetuated by tensions between the majority and the opposition. this climate is widely revealed by the press. greece also opposes the name of the country as it considers that the name of macedonia belongs to the hellenic heritage. the economic situation is not much brighter, with unemployment reaching 28% of the active population in a country which has become one of the main transit routes for illegal immigration, especially to germany. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which simply codifies regulation (ec) no 153/2002 of 21 january 2002 on certain procedures for applying the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, and the interim agreement between the european community and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
‒ another report on the enlargement of the european union. as for the other countries, i think that is unreasonable in the case of macedonia and i therefore vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the union has concluded several stabilisation and association agreements with several balkan states, including the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. these agreements are part of a perspective of rapprochement, rather than enlargement. i have spoken in favour of the codification of this regulation in order to simplify and clarify the legislative framework.
in writing. ‒ the european legal regime governing state aid is largely questionable. first of all, it is a confiscation of a state prerogative and, in fact, a loss of sovereignty. i support the freedom of member states to support and promote certain sectors and certain undertakings in the context of national economic strategies. the report before us aims to consolidate the rules for the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and, ultimately, to support the strengthening of this framework for state aid in the union. while many of our international competitors enjoy this freedom, i cannot accept that france and the other member states should be subject to these strict rules which bind their economic activities. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ while the european commission's motives for relaxing the state aid regime (articles 107 and 108 tfeu) in favour of certain economic operators are not objectionable, i am opposed in principle to the system of sanctions for state aid: member states must remain free to intervene in a particular economic sector.
in writing. this report should allow the proposal to be approved to define the categories of horizontal state aid for which the commission is empowered to adopt exemptions. if certain sectors are now eligible for state aid (innovation, culture, forestry, sport, etc.) since the codified regulation extends the scope of exceptions to the principle of prohibition of state aid, it is the very principle of articles 107 and 108 that is objectionable since they establish a real supervision by the commission of the member states in their public policies. in the name of the sacred and holy principle of free and undistorted competition, this prohibition of state aid, although accompanied by exceptions, creates a feeling of legal insecurity and testifies ever more strongly to the supremacy of european law over national law, which i challenge in the name of the sovereignty of nations. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the economic difficulties since 1974 and the financial crisis of 2008-09 make the commission's action difficult in relation to member states, which are traditionally interventionist and anxious to meet public expectations. article 107 (1) lays down a general principle of the prohibition of state aid in so far as it affects trade between member states. there are a number of exceptions. the commission has exclusive powers to enforce these provisions (article 108 tfeu). if the european commission's motives for relaxing the state aid regime (articles 107 and 108 tfeu) in favour of certain economic operators are not objectionable, the state aid penalty regime must be rejected in principle. i voted against this text because member states must remain free to intervene in certain economic sectors.
in writing. ‒ the text deals with the stabilisation and association agreements with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and is part of the overall strategy of enlargement of the european union to include the states resulting from the break-up of the former yugoslavia. the purpose of the proposal is to codify council regulation (ec) no 153/2002. the text, although only formal, reaffirms the legal significance of such agreements, which are a prerequisite for the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the european union. i am opposed to any further enlargement of a european union which has become ungovernable, and i naturally voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ simplifying and making european legislation more accessible is one of the objectives of european legislators. codification serves this purpose and allows the compilation of the legislative texts dealing with the same subject. i voted in favour of the report on the codification of the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which seeks to establish the role of policeman that the commission intends to play vis-à-vis the member states, particularly in the field of state aid. the text states that member states should be sanctioned if they grant aid to a particular economic sector. the state must be able to remain a strategic public actor which, in accordance with the economic and social interests of the country, can restore a particular economic sector. it is not for the commission, a technocracy far removed from the real issues facing the workers of the member states, to give its consent or not to protect our national industries when necessary.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to codify council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. the text allows the commission to declare that certain aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, environmental protection, broadband infrastructure, employment and sport, and regional aid are compatible with the internal market and are not subject to the notification requirement. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any change in substance. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the text under examination concerns the application by the commission of the treaty provisions on the exemption from incompatibility of certain horizontal state aid. parliament voted to codify this regulation. this is purely formal and has no substantial impact. it provides greater legal certainty with regard to european legislation.
in writing. ‒ the european legal regime governing state aid is largely questionable. first of all, it is a confiscation of a state's prerogative and, in fact, a loss of sovereignty. i support the freedom of member states to support and promote certain sectors and certain undertakings in the context of national economic strategies. the report before us aims to validate the codification of the rules for the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and, ultimately, to support the strengthening of this framework for state aid in the union. while many of our international competitors enjoy this freedom, i cannot accept that france should be subject to these strict rules which constrain its economic activity. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european legal regime governing state aid is largely questionable. first of all, it is a confiscation of a state's prerogative and, in fact, a loss of sovereignty. i support the freedom of member states to support and promote certain sectors and certain undertakings in the context of national economic strategies. the report before us aims to validate the codification of the rules for the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and, ultimately, to support the strengthening of this framework for state aid in the union. while many of our international competitors enjoy this freedom, i cannot accept that france should be subject to these strict rules which constrain its economic activity. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. in the context of the effort to simplify european law, the aim is to codify a number of existing provisions on the subject, in order to integrate them into a single, clearer and simpler text. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to codify the regulation on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. in the interests of clarity and transparency, the procedure known as 'formal codification' makes it possible to merge all the amendments and revisions to a text without changing its substance.
in writing. - i vote against it. the text deals with state aid and seeks to regulate it and impose sanctions for non-compliance with these rules. member states grant aid to their national enterprises to promote regional development, employment, training, restructuring, etc. while i can support the motives of the european commission which wishes to relax the state aid regime in favour of certain economic operators, i cannot accept the will of parliament which wants to sanction state aid which does not correspond to its objectives. i believe that the member states must remain sovereign and therefore free to intervene in the economic sector which they consider necessary to support.
in writing. - vote against this report. while i acknowledge that the european commission's motives are laudable, since it is trying to relax the state aid regime in favour of certain economic operators, this is still an attack on the sovereignty of the member states and their right to govern themselves. member states must remain free to intervene in any sector of the economy when and as they wish.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify the regulation on certain categories of horizontal state aid. under this regulation, the commission is empowered to declare certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market and thus exempt from the control procedures. i am opposed to the commission's interference in this area and i am voting against.
in writing. the purpose of the present case is to approve the proposal to define the categories of horizontal state aid for which the commission is empowered to adopt exemptions. although the consolidated regulation extends the scope of exceptions to the principle of the prohibition of state aid (to innovation, culture and heritage conservation, natural disasters, the forestry, sports or broadband infrastructures), it is nevertheless the very principle of articles 107 and 108 that is objectionable, since they establish a genuine supervision by the commission of the member states in their public policies, in the name of the dogma of free and undistorted competition. this general prohibition of state aid, although accompanied by wide exceptions, also creates a feeling of legal uncertainty, as positive law is modified in line with developments in the case-law of the cjeu. i believe that the member states must remain sovereign in their public aid policies and i have therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which simply codifies council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to certain categories of horizontal state aid. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. ‒ i reject the state aid sanctioning regime on principle. it is essential that states should be able to intervene in areas which they consider to be strategic. it is a basis of democracy where the elected representatives of the people must act in the interests of the people, including in the economic field. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the codification of the application of articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union concerning certain categories of horizontal state aid. these amendments will make it easier to apply these articles.
in writing. ‒ while the european commission's motives for relaxing the state aid regime (tfeu) in favour of certain economic operators are not objectionable, the system of sanctioning state aid must be rejected in principle. member states must remain free to intervene in any sector of the economy. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) govern the granting of aid paid by a member state. this system deprives the member states of their freedom in economic matters, particularly with regard to the strategic choices of the states. the validation of this codification would also be tantamount to accepting the commission's strategy of strengthening the internal market and economic integration in the union without regard to national interests. the deprivation of certain economic freedoms penalizes us in international competition with largely state-supported economies in other parts of the world. i rejected this weakening of the economies of the member states in a context of ever more intense globalisation and therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the eu does not have to prohibit state aid (article 107 tfeu): the procedure laid down by article 108 is therefore superficial.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this article imposes on the member states a compulsory procedure for prior notification to the commission of all state aid. i object to the principle of the prohibition of state aid laid down in article 107 tfeu. this notification procedure is like the commission putting member states under its control and i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union does not have to prohibit state aid (article 107 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). the procedure laid down in article 108 is therefore superficial. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in the logic of codifying the rules for the application of article 107 tfeu, the proposal to incorporate into the positive law of the european union the rules for the application of article 108 tfeu which provide in particular: in accordance with article 108 (3) tfeu, all plans to grant aid should be notified to the commission and may not be put into effect until the commission has given its consent.' ' - the commission would have the power:to require a member state, an undertaking or an association of undertakings to provide it with all the necessary information concerning the market, where it has doubts as to the compatibility of the measure concerned with union rules and has initiated the formal investigation procedure; to compel undertakings and associations of undertakings to act on requests for information addressed to them, if necessary by means of proportionate fines and penalties.' this system of submitting public policy to the discretion of the european commission is a real scandal which should be denounced even when it comes to formal texts. that is why i voted against this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ codification makes it possible to compile certain texts of european legislation which deal with a similar subject in order to simplify and make the texts more accessible. this report concerns the codification of the rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which endorses the commission's rules on sanctions for state aid. the latter must be able to continue to steer strategic directions for national industrial and economic sectors, in accordance with national interests. the commission does not have to regulate this pillar of public policy, particularly when the aid granted is directed towards regional development, whether it is in favour of employment, training or rescuing enterprises which are fundamental to the territories in which they are located.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to codify the council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this proposal concerns the procedural rules to be applied to state aid investigations, in particular the obligation to notify all aid to the commission. i support this text, which is merely a codification of positive law without any change in substance. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the regulation concerns the application of the treaty provisions on procedural rules for state aid investigations. the european parliament adopted the formal codification of the regulation. this is in line with the need for greater clarity in european legislation.
in writing. ‒ the rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) govern the granting of aid paid by a member state. it deprives nations of their economic freedom, particularly in the strategic choices made by states. the validation of this codification would also be tantamount to accepting the commission's strategy of strengthening the internal market and economic integration in the union without regard to national interests. the deprivation of certain economic freedoms penalizes us in international competition with largely state-supported economies in other parts of the world. i rejected this weakening of the french economy in a context of ever more intense globalisation and therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) govern the granting of aid paid by a member state. this regime deprives nations of their economic freedom, particularly in the light of the strategic choices made by states. the validation of this codification would also be tantamount to accepting the commission's strategy of strengthening the internal market and economic integration in the union without regard to national interests. the deprivation of certain economic freedoms penalizes us in international competition with largely state-supported economies in other parts of the world. i rejected this weakening of the french economy in a context of ever more intense globalisation and therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on the detailed rules for the application of article 108 tfeu. in the context of the effort to simplify european law, the aim is to codify a number of existing provisions on the subject, in order to integrate them into a single, clearer and simpler text. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to codify the regulation on the detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous vote, we believe that the european union should not ban state aid and that member states should remain free to intervene in the economic sectors they want, when and how they want. article 108 is therefore superfluous and dominique martin has therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify the regulation which gives the commission specific power to rule on the compatibility of state aid with the internal market. i am opposed to the commission's interference in these areas, and i am voting against.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to codify council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. article 108 tfeu establishes a procedure for the prior and mandatory notification of all state aid to the commission. however, we contest the principle of the prohibition of state aid laid down in article 107 tfeu and any legitimacy of the commission to decide on the legality of state aid. i believe that public aid policy should be the responsibility of the member states, without any external interference or prior notification procedure, which is a real supervision of countries by the commission. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which simply codifies council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the regulation has been substantially amended several times, so that its provisions are now found in the original act and scattered in subsequent amending acts. in the interests of clarity and simplification of the law, ensuring greater legal certainty and better information for citizens, it was therefore appropriate to codify that regulation. this process preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely brings together in a readable form the various modifications made to it.
in writing. ‒ opposing article 108, since i support the idea that states should be free to intervene in the economy, it is logical that i also oppose its rules of application. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of codification concerning the application of article 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. these amendments will help to clarify the application of this article.
in writing. ‒ the sanction regime for state aid must be rejected in principle. they must remain free to intervene in any sector of the economy. i therefore vote against.
in writing. i voted against this complacency report which multiplies errors of assessment.
in writing. the court of auditors' special reports contain information on important aspects of the implementation of the funds, which are therefore useful to parliament in its role as discharge authority. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution approves a number of special reports drawn up by the court of auditors of the european union. these reports are for the most part far too succinct and lack a detailed analysis of the real impacts of european policies. for example, as regards the court's report on the contribution of the erdf to the development of business incubators, the recommendations are vague and there is no way of measuring the impact of the erdf on the creation and development of businesses in the so-called incubators. these reports are not sufficiently critical and sometimes even show a certain complacency towards the union's institutions. the positive impact of the union's public policies is marginal when compared with the ultra-austerity policies pursued by brussels. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. i supported this report because i agree with many of the recommendations and observations made by the court of auditors concerning the union's institutions, agencies and bodies. i welcome the excellent audit and control work carried out by the court. the latter is of great use to the european parliament as the discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ingeborg grässle on the report of the european court of auditors in the context of the 2013 commission discharge. this report analyses the commission's expenditure and, in some cases, re-directs the lines of appropriation and commends the commission for the good management of european money. this report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the commission discharge for the court of auditors' special reports in the 2013 discharge. the court of auditors' special reports contain information on important aspects of the implementation of the funds, which is therefore useful to parliament in its role as discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ this report welcomes the 21 special opinions that the court of auditors publishes to shed some light on the opacity of the budget entrusted to the european commission, under the name of section iii . however, in these 2013 reports, the court of auditors found numerous irregularities, both in the management of the commission and by the states. for example, it is stated that the schengen 2 information system was developed without even the main project managers knowing the technical specifications or the needs of the users when the project started. i am appalled at the commission's amateurism, when at the same time it is strangling the people of europe with its austerity policies. i vote against this report.
in writing. the court of auditors' special reports have provided information on issues and concerns related to the implementation of the funds, which is therefore useful to parliament in its role as discharge authority. however, these special reports of the court of auditors are far too complacent and uncritical. moreover, the decision shows far too many errors of assessment. these reports deal with matters that appear superficial in the face of the problems facing the european union. for these reasons, i voted against these reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the special reports of the european court of auditors in the context of the 2013 commission discharge. these special reports contain important information to inform the european parliament in its role as budgetary discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ this report is too uncritical and one might even go so far as to say that it is complacent when the financing problems are major, have been going on for years and no real solution has ever been found. in these circumstances, i shall of course vote against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the court of auditors' special reports. these reports contain information on key aspects concerning the implementation of the funds and it is therefore important that parliament approves these reports in the context of its function as discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ this report is subject to too many errors of assessment and remains far too complacent towards the european commission. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge on the implementation of the 2013 budgets of the 8th, 9th and 10th edfs. the court of auditors' report indicates that the error rate (3,4%) has increased compared to the previous year and the typology of errors identified remains similar, namely the lack of supporting documents, the non-compliance with the applicable provisions on procurement by beneficiaries and ineligible expenditure. errors are continuously found in final declarations of expenditure which have been subject to external audits and verifications. the edf's activities are spread over a wide geographical area, which presents a high degree of inherent risk and makes it difficult to optimise control mechanisms. this should not be seen as an excuse and transparency should be improved. the court regrets the lack of traceability, as the use of the transferred funds is the same as that of the budgetary resources of the partner country. the report also calls for the edf to be included in the eu's general budget, with greater transparency and control as the main argument. however, the edf remains the domain of the union's foreign policy and therefore a competence of the member states.
in writing. i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. the error rate (3.4%) increased compared to the previous year and remains too high. the typology of errors identified remains similar to that of previous years, namely the absence of supporting documents, non-compliance with the applicable provisions on procurement by beneficiaries and ineligible expenditure. weaknesses remain in the management system as regards the results and follow-up of internal and external audits, despite the commission's commitment to improve data quality. it is not a question of adding new levels of control but of working on the effectiveness of control activities and their complementarity, in compliance with the principles of good governance. the court regrets that the final use of the transferred funds is based on that of the partner country's budgetary resources and the lack of traceability of eu funds the report calls for the edf to be included in the eu's general budget, but the edf remains the union's foreign policy area and therefore a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the text is admittedly relatively critical but calls for the edf to be included in the general budget of the eu, whereas the edf is a foreign policy area: i therefore voted against it.
in writing. this report asks for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors' report highlights a relatively high error rate, which has increased compared to 2012, in particular the non-compliance with the provisions relating to the award of public contracts. the report proposes that the edf budget be included in the eu budget, as edf action is spread globally and thus encourages the risk of error and non-compliance. i think that the edf, which is part of the eu's external policy, should be the exclusive responsibility of the member states and i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. however, the report found that the error rate was still higher than in the previous year and that of the 165 payment transactions checked, 45 or 27% were affected by irregularities. the report recommends that the european development fund be integrated into the general budget of the union, whereas the latter is part of the union's foreign policy and is subject to the control of the member states. more generally, and in a period of shortage of public money, the question arises as to whether the financial envelope allocated to this fund should be maintained. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ it was unthinkable to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. with an error rate increasing by 3.4% - that is, out of 165 checked payment transactions 45 affected by errors, i.e. 27% - the edf remains a source of major dysfunctions. the court of auditors noted the absence of supporting documents, the non-compliance with the applicable provisions on the award of contracts by the beneficiaries and ineligible expenditure. in addition, there are still many management weaknesses, particularly in the results and follow-up of internal and external audits. i therefore rejected the report because of a number of other weaknesses in the edf's action.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the european commission discharge for the implementation of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds. i also agree with the report that there is a need for greater transparency in the management of these funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. the error rate (3.4%) increased compared to the previous year and remains too high. the typology of errors identified remains similar to that of previous years, namely the absence of supporting documents, non-compliance with the applicable provisions on procurement by beneficiaries and ineligible expenditure. weaknesses remain in the management system as regards the results and follow-up of internal and external audits, despite the commission's commitment to improve data quality. it is not a question of adding new levels of control but of working on the effectiveness of control activities and their complementarity, in compliance with the principles of good governance. the court regrets that the final use of the transferred funds is based on that of the partner country's budgetary resources and the lack of traceability of eu funds the report calls for the edf to be included in the eu's general budget, but the edf remains the union's foreign policy area and therefore a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. the error rate (3.4%) increased compared to the previous year and remains too high. the typology of errors identified remains similar to that of previous years, namely the absence of supporting documents, non-compliance with the applicable provisions on procurement by beneficiaries and ineligible expenditure. weaknesses remain in the management system as regards the results and follow-up of internal and external audits, despite the commission's commitment to improve data quality. it is not a question of adding new levels of control but of working on the effectiveness of control activities and their complementarity, in compliance with the principles of good governance. the court regrets that the final use of the transferred funds is based on that of the partner country's budgetary resources and the lack of traceability of eu funds the report calls for the edf to be included in the eu's general budget, but the edf remains the union's foreign policy area and therefore a competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the general budget of the eu for the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds (edf). the edf is the european union's main instrument for providing development assistance to the acp countries (africa, the caribbean and the pacific) and the overseas countries and territories (octs). the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors indicates that the error rate (3.4%) has increased compared to the previous year and remains too high: of the 165 payment transactions audited, 45 (or 27%) were affected by errors: lack of supporting documents, non-compliance with the applicable provisions on the award of contracts by beneficiaries, ineligible expenditure. one of the major problems is that the final use of the transferred funds is the same as that of the budgetary resources of the partner country. this often results in a lack of traceability of eu funds.
in writing. - i opposed this discharge. for several years now, the court of auditors has found numerous errors in the reports of these european development funds (edfs), without their methodologies ever being corrected. the court also noted a lack of transparency and traceability in their activities. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report gives a discharge for the 2013 budget of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds. these manage european official development aid to the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific) under the lomé and cotonou agreements. like the rest of the european budget, it is marked by austerity, while needs are growing. it is also noted that the control and monitoring systems are only partially effective in ensuring the legality and regularity of payments. this results in a high error rate (3,4% or approximately eur 230 million) and increasing since 2012. moreover, the report says nothing about the disastrous effects of the liberal policies which are being imposed on the countries of the south in return for aid, in the form of increasingly imperative 'conditionality'. i vote against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ for several years now, the court of auditors has found numerous errors in the reports of these european development funds (edfs), without their methodologies ever being corrected. the court also noted a lack of transparency and traceability in their activities. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the discharge for the 2013 financial year relates to the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds. the court of auditors' report highlights a relatively high error rate, which is higher than in 2012. the main errors identified relate to non-compliance with the provisions relating to the award of public contracts, which leads the court of auditors to be alarmed by the recurring errors in the final declarations of expenditure which had been the subject of external audits and verifications. the report notes that the geographical scope of edf action increases the risk of error and proposes to integrate the edf budget into the general eu budget in the interests of transparency. the edf is part of the eu's foreign policy. i believe that the latter should be the exclusive competence of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds. the european development funds (edfs), financed by the member states, are the main vehicle for union development cooperation assistance to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds (edf), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budgets of these funds. the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds have proved their sound financial management and taking into account subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas which can be improved. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the edf operates over a wide geographical area, which poses a high degree of inherent risk and makes it difficult to optimise control mechanisms and improve the transparency of funding. but to remedy this situation, the text calls for the european development fund to be included in the general budget of the european union. the edf is a foreign policy instrument, and therefore the responsibility of the member states. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu, and in particular the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds (edf) for the financial year 2013. the edf operates over a wide geographical area, which poses a high degree of inherent risk and makes it difficult to optimise control mechanisms and improve the transparency of edf financing. the report calls for the edf to be included in the eu's general budget, with greater transparency and control as the main argument. however, the edf remains the union's foreign policy area and therefore the exclusive competence of the member states. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted for some amendments, but against the overall text because the deferrals keep increasing: parliament and its administration must be more accountable for the resources allocated to them. the seat of the european parliament is and remains strasbourg.
in writing. this report shall give discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013, section i concerning the european parliament. the 2013 budget is up 1.9% on the previous year and carry-overs are continuing to increase to reach €305 million in 2013. the programme to raise awareness of the role of the parliament also reached eur 14.5 million, the promotion of the european elections, for example, cost eur 17 million and the future house of european history is estimated at eur 56 million. the european parliament is not a model of efficient and transparent management, so i have decided to oppose this discharge.
in writing. the report recommends that discharge be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013. the report notes that the appropriations for the budget of the european parliament amounted to eur 1 750 463 939, i.e. 19,7% of the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework allocated in 2013. this is a considerable sum and reflects the existence of a real budget gap within the union's institutions. the report also calls into question the effectiveness of the €14.5 million programme to raise awareness of the european parliament! it should also be noted that the european parliament spent 17 8000 0000 euros on the election campaign which it should never have done. finally, the credit deferrals are continuing to increase and amounted to eur 305 457 875 in 2013 compared to eur 222 900 384 in 2012. i am concerned about the european parliament's expense-driven approach and have voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european parliament. although some areas need improvement, overall the european parliament delivered clear results for 2013. the european parliament is the only european institution whose members are directly elected by our citizens. in this we must set an example. i have had the opportunity, through the resolution on this discharge, to point out that under european law the seat of parliament is in strasbourg.
in writing. ‒ this report by mr pargneaux is intended to grant discharge to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013. i voted against this text which seems to be deliberately minimizing the dysfunctions in parliament's budgetary activities. administrative expenditure is up 1.9% on the 2012 budget, carry-overs are increasing (representing an amount of eur 305 457 875 in 2013 against eur 222 900 384 in 2012), and information provided by parliament and the administration on the resources made available to the ep throughout the discharge remains incomplete. the parliament also undertakes costly and ineffective programmes such as the 2012-2014 programme to raise awareness of the role of the parliament, which cost €14,500,000, and the communication programmes around the european elections, which had the known result (with a turnout of 42%). i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge for the 2013 budget year to the european parliament, which had a final current appropriation of eur 1.75 billion and a commitment rate of 99.02%. the audit of the reliability of the accounts did not reveal any serious deficiencies, so i voted in favour of discharge. however, i objected to paragraph 50 of the resolution, which states that 'in order to generate sustainable savings in the union budget, it is imperative that parliament and the council establish a roadmap for a single seat, the need for which has been stressed by parliament in several of its previous resolutions'. i am not in favour of such an idea, which could in the long run call into question the status of strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. that is why i voted against this paragraph.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european parliament. i repeat my support for the european parliament's seat in strasbourg. like my fellow meps, i call on the secretary-general to be more transparent about his ambitions for the european parliament. finally, i take note of the results of the 2014 european elections and hope that lessons can be drawn from them in the run-up to the next elections.
in writing. ‒ i would like to reiterate my commitment to defending the official seat of the european parliament in strasbourg and that is why i voted against the amendment on a single seat. this amendment is a subtle way of calling into question the official seat, in defiance of the treaties. i would like to remind you that the treaties clearly establish the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg and only an agreement at member state level could change that. i regret the attitude of these members who clearly show by these amendments their disinterest in european construction and the symbol of country and reconciliation which the seat of parliament in strasbourg represents. despite this amendment, i voted in favour of the deprez report on the estimated state of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016, section i - parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the need for our institution to move towards greater transparency in the way it organises itself, and so that public money is used in accordance with the objective pursued. among the proposals adopted were: the request for increased controls on the recruitment of local assistants, greater transparency on the expenditure of the budget allocated to meps for their general expenses (rent of parliamentary premises, computer equipment, operating expenses, etc.), and the elaboration of members' declarations of financial interests. as regards the question of the seat of the european parliament, i opposed any amendment aimed at calling into question the seat of strasbourg: i would remind you that this question is a prerogative of the council, which decides unanimously on this question, as is enshrined in the treaties.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section i european parliament, and i have decided to vote against. the deferrals are continuing to increase, amounting to eur 305 457 875 in 2013 (compared to eur 222 900 384 in 2012). parliament's bodies and administration are accountable for the resources made available to parliament throughout the discharge, which has not always been the case, as the secretary-general has not answered a whole series of questions from members. the report questions the effectiveness of the 2012-14 programme to raise awareness of the ep's role, which cost €14 500 000. the report expresses concern that parliament spent eur 17 800 000 on an institutional election campaign in 2013-14 which, however, led to elections with a low turnout (42%). one might ask what the cost of this new strategy will be: the problem is probably not the communication of the union, but the union itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the president of the european parliament discharge in respect of the implementation of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this discharge. the report stresses that the final current appropriations and the carryovers of appropriations are continuing to increase, while at the same time the secretary-general refuses to answer certain questions concerning the use of the funds. in view of this lack of transparency it is more appropriate to oppose the grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. the report proposes to give parliament a quitus for its 2013 budget. however, the report notes many irregularities. the secretary-general refused to answer all the questions on the implementation of the budget put by members. the new logo of parliament was also chosen in an opaque procedure, the cost of which we do not even know. the report also finds it surprising that the parliament's buffet and restaurant have not been able to provide the necessary services, despite the fact that prices have been increased and the number of visitors has increased by 150%. finally, in its logic of blind hunting and limited to surcharges, this report echoes the anglo-saxon arguments against the seat of parliament in strasbourg. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights that final current appropriations and carry-overs are increasing, while at the same time the secretary-general refuses to answer certain questions concerning the use of funds. in view of this lack of transparency it is more appropriate to oppose the grant.
in writing. the report calls for discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013, section i european parliament. this is a surprisingly cowardly report, given the number of tables in the european parliament. the 2013 budget is up 1.9% on the previous year, the carry-overs are continuing to increase to reach €305 million in 2013, the dubious and costly (€14.5 million) ineffectiveness of the programme to raise awareness of the role of the ep. the european parliament seems to be resolved to be nothing more than a body of press and propaganda officers in the service of the eu. over €17 million was spent on a campaign to promote the 2014 european elections. and what about the house of european history, which cost nearly 56 million to build? i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european parliament. i voted against amendments which would have put the european parliament's seat in strasbourg in question. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the european parliament, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institution. the european parliament has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking account of the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. i voted against all the amendments which call into question the existence of the seat of the parliament in strasbourg. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that parliament's final current appropriations for 2013 amounted to eur 1 750 463 939, i.e. 19,07% of the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework for administrative expenditure of the union institutions in 2013, which represents an increase of 1,9% compared to the 2012 budget (eur 1 717 868 121). the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to provide a more effective response to the crisis. despite these serious problems and the many expenditures which are clearly inefficient (campaign to promote the european elections followed by a low turnout) and sometimes lavish (increase in the budget for catering), the report calls for discharge. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge in the european parliament. i am, however, strongly opposed to the amendment which recalls that considerable savings could be achieved by providing parliament with a single seat and the paragraph which stresses that, in order to generate sustainable savings in the union budget, it is imperative that parliament and the council draw up a roadmap for a single seat, the need for which has been underlined by parliament in several of its previous resolutions; other these two formulations are yet another unacceptable attack on strasbourg, which is the sole seat of the european parliament, an attack on the history of european integration, and on the symbol of reconciliation that the alsatian city represents. let's stop trading our history and our values for accounting logic.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. the text as a whole is not very critical of the analysis of parliament's budgetary activities. i vote against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report calling for the postponement of the discharge to be given to the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council the council still refuses to cooperate with parliament and does not provide the data necessary for the discharge procedure. the report says that the council lacks transparency and accountability to the citizens of the union. reminds the house that each institution must justify the funds allocated to it. effective budgetary control is impossible without the cooperation of parliament and the council, which presupposes above all that council representatives participate in formal meetings with parliament's committee on budgetary control and that the institution answers questions put by members of the parliamentary committee, which is clearly not the case at the moment. parliament is concerned that the percentage of unused appropriations remains high. performance indicators should be developed to improve budget planning in the coming years. the european council and the council should also provide information on their staffing levels and answers on their infrastructure, real estate projects and translation costs.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which is too uncritical, when for the fifth consecutive year the council refuses to cooperate with parliament and does not provide the data necessary for the budgetary discharge procedure. i voted for postponement of discharge because the council refuses to give the discharge authority information.
in writing. this report asks for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii concerning the european council and the council. unfortunately, the situation is the following: for the past five years the council has refused to provide the information necessary for the discharge procedure, thereby undermining the council's duty of transparency. we do not have information on the staff of the european council and the council of ministers, nor do we know anything about building projects or infrastructure. the council should be held accountable for its actions before parliament's committee on budgetary control. this discharge is a symbol of a flagrant lack of transparency and, given that the report is full of this and calls for the postponement of discharge, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to postpone the discharge on the implementation of the eu budget for the financial year 2013 concerning section ii, i.e. the european council and the council, while rejecting the resolution as a whole. the council has refused, for the fifth year in a row, to cooperate with parliament - a real denial of democracy - by not providing the data and information necessary for the budgetary discharge procedure. it was therefore sensible to ask for the postponement of this discharge, especially since the percentage of unused appropriations remains high and the absence of performance indicators prevents any budget planning from being efficient. the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament is therefore rightly asking the european council and the council to provide information on their staff, infrastructure, real estate projects and translation costs.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends postponing the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. for the fifth consecutive year, the council has refused to cooperate with parliament and has not provided the data required for the discharge procedure. the council does not justify public funds allocated to it and does not respect certain rules of transparency regarding real estate projects or translation costs. i am aware that the aim of calling into question the council is to defend the sovereignty of a european parliament which is not representative of the citizens of the member states, but i nevertheless voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of postponing the discharge. i am concerned about the council's chronic refusal to cooperate with the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, the budgetary authority of the european union, did not grant the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. by refusing to answer our questions, the council is failing in its duty to inform european citizens and taxpayers. to grant discharge, we need access to the accounts. as long as the council refuses to comply with it, the european parliament cannot give discharge. this is the very principle of democratic control which our parliament must exercise.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report calling for the postponement of the discharge to be given to the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council. the council still refuses to cooperate with parliament and does not provide the data necessary for the discharge procedure. the report says that the council lacks transparency and accountability to the citizens of the union. reminds the house that each institution must justify the funds allocated to it. effective budgetary control is impossible without the cooperation of parliament and the council, which presupposes above all that council representatives participate in formal meetings with parliament's committee on budgetary control and that the institution answers questions put by members of the parliamentary committee, which is clearly not the case at the moment. parliament is concerned that the percentage of unused appropriations remains high. performance indicators should be developed to improve budget planning in the coming years. information on staffing levels and specific information on infrastructure, real estate projects and translation costs should also be provided.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report calling for the postponement of the discharge to be given to the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council the council still refuses to cooperate with parliament and does not provide the data necessary for the discharge procedure. the report says that the council lacks transparency and accountability to the citizens of the union. reminds the house that each institution must justify the funds allocated to it. effective budgetary control is impossible without the cooperation of parliament and the council, which presupposes above all that council representatives participate in formal meetings with parliament's committee on budgetary control and that the institution answers questions put by members of the parliamentary committee, which is clearly not the case at the moment. parliament is concerned that the percentage of unused appropriations remains high. performance indicators should be developed to improve budget planning in the coming years. the european council and the council should also provide information on their staffing levels and answers on their infrastructure, real estate projects and translation costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report postponing the discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council, to be postponed. i voted for this postponement because for the fifth year in a row the council refuses to cooperate with parliament and does not provide the data necessary for the discharge procedure. the report also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative acts to ensure that the rules on the use of the financial resources of the union are respected.
in writing. ‒ this report suggests not to give discharge to the european council and the council, which i support. for the fifth consecutive year, the council has refused to cooperate with parliament by refusing to provide the information necessary for the discharge procedure. by refusing to do so, the council is failing in its duty of transparency and accountability to the european citizens, since all the institutions must justify the funds allocated to them. i am therefore in favour of this call for a delay in the discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. the council's budget is symptomatic of these methods. parliament has already refused to give him discharge for 2009, 2010 and 2011 without taking any account of it. it maintains a high degree of opacity on the budget of the european council and on staff. here the parliament's report simply proposes to postpone the discharge for the council's budget in 2013. we cannot see what improvement can be brought about by this indulgence on the part of parliament in the face of the authoritarian methods of the council. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report suggests not to give discharge to the european council and the council, which i support. for the fifth consecutive year, the council has refused to cooperate with parliament by refusing to provide the information necessary for the discharge procedure. by refusing to do so, the council is failing in its duty of transparency and accountability to the european citizens, since all the institutions must justify the funds allocated to them. i therefore vote in favour of postponing this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european council refuses to communicate its expenditure, so we must follow the postponement of the discharge. for the fifth consecutive year the council refuses to cooperate with parliament and does not provide the data necessary for the discharge procedure. the report therefore considers that the council is failing to fulfil its duty of transparency and accountability to the citizens of the union. effective budgetary control is impossible without the cooperation of parliament and the council, which presupposes above all that council representatives participate in formal meetings with parliament's committee on budgetary control and that the institution answers questions put by members of the parliamentary committee, which is clearly not the case at the moment. the european council and the council should also provide information on their staffing levels and answers on their infrastructure, real estate projects and translation costs.
in writing. the stantcheva report calls for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council. and this is understandable. for five years now the council has refused to provide the information necessary for the discharge procedure, thereby undermining the council's duty of transparency, whereas budgetary responsibility must necessarily involve a justification of the funds allocated. the council cannot try to exempt itself from these requirements and must answer for its actions to the committee on budgetary control, like all the others. no information is available on the staff of the european council and the council of ministers, nor on infrastructure, building projects, etc. this lack of transparency, supported by this report, is the reason for its adoption. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european council and the council. the discharge decision is postponed for lack of sufficient information. the text recalls in particular that the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated in order to promote greater transparency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the european council and the council, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of these institutions. the european council and the council have demonstrated sound financial management and, taking account of the subsequent recommendations, they must continue their efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council. and this is understandable. for five years now the council has refused to provide the information necessary for the discharge procedure, thereby compromising the council's duty of transparency, whereas budgetary responsibility must necessarily involve a justification of the funds allocated. the council cannot try to exempt itself from these requirements and must answer for its actions to the committee on budgetary control, like all the others. no information is available on the staff of the european council and the council of ministers, nor on infrastructure, building projects, etc. this lack of transparency, supported by this report, is the reason for its adoption. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ for the fifth consecutive year, the council refuses to cooperate with parliament and does not provide the data necessary for the discharge procedure. the report therefore considers that the council is failing to fulfil its duty of transparency and accountability to the citizens of the union. reminds the house that each institution must justify the funds allocated to it. effective budgetary control is impossible without the cooperation of parliament and the council, which presupposes above all that council representatives participate in formal meetings with parliament's committee on budgetary control and that the institution answers questions put by members of the parliamentary committee, which is clearly not the case at the moment. in these circumstances, the report logically calls for postponement of the discharge and i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the eu budget for the financial year 2013 to be postponed. for the fifth consecutive year the council refuses to cooperate with parliament and does not provide the data necessary for the discharge procedure. the report therefore considers that the council is failing to fulfil its duty of transparency and accountability to the citizens of the union. effective budgetary control is impossible without the cooperation of parliament and the council, which presupposes above all that council representatives participate in formal meetings with parliament's committee on budgetary control and that the institution answers questions put by members of the parliamentary committee, which is clearly not the case at the moment. i am voting in favour of the decision to postpone the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european external action service (eeas) for the implementation of its budget. the european external action service has been in existence for over five years. however, the court of auditors explicitly notes that it is still not operational, partly because of its administrative burden. i therefore voted against the discharge. the court of auditors' report also raises concerns about the lack of interest of the eeas in public procurement procedures. it appears that the eeas was not sufficiently rigorous or attentive at the various stages of these procedures. the court also noted some problems with the management of staff.
in writing. i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european external action service. the court of auditors explicitly notes that the european external action service (eeas) is not operational, due, inter alia, to its administrative burden. the court notes that the allowances paid to staff are a concern because the controls are not yet sufficiently rigorous. in addition, some social benefits were paid but not all recipients were entitled to them. the lack of transparency on this is unacceptable and makes possible possible fictitious jobs. the court is also concerned about the lack of interest of the eeas in public procurement procedures, to which it has not paid sufficient attention. in general, the court finds that the quality of the information is below the required criteria and that the institution's efforts should be directed mainly to this subject. for example, the eeas did not include in this report the findings of olaf investigations and procedures, nor did it indicate the progress made with regard to the new anti-fraud strategy for eu delegations, which was scheduled to be finalised in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors explicitly notes that the european external action service (eeas) is not operational , due, among other things, to its administrative burden. the court notes that the allowances paid to staff are a concern because the controls are not yet sufficiently rigorous: the eeas members have not made it a habit to declare allowances from other sources. in addition, some social benefits were paid but not all recipients were entitled to them. the lack of transparency on this is unacceptable and makes possible possible fictitious jobs. the court is also concerned about the lack of interest of the eeas in public procurement procedures. it appears that the eeas was not sufficiently rigorous or attentive at the various stages of these procedures. in general, the court finds that the quality of the information is below the required criteria. for example, the eeas did not indicate the progress made with the new anti-fraud strategy for eu delegations, which was due to be finalised in 2013. i therefore voted against the report calling for discharge.
in writing. this report calls for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european external action service. the final budget of the eeas headquarters was eur 508.800.000, an increase of 4,09%. in addition to the eeas's own budget, the commission contributed eur 272 400 000. at the eeas headquarters, 69% of the budget is devoted to the payment of salaries and other emoluments of statutory and external staff and 10% to buildings and ancillary costs; for the union delegations, 34% shall relate to the remuneration of statutory staff, 19,9% to external staff and 31,8% to buildings and ancillary costs. the court of auditors considered that many aspects needed to be taken into account for greater transparency and more rigorous management: control of staff allowances, strengthening of the anti-fraud strategy with regard to third countries, implementation of internal rules on reporting of irregularities, improvement of the geographical balance in recruitment and appointment of staff; streamlining of the eeas's senior management and decision-making processes; reducing the cost of staff days away or clarifying the eeas 's housing policy ... for these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends that discharge be given to the european external action service (eeas) for the implementation of the general budget. however, the court's report notes that the eeas is not 'operational'. the report noted a complete lack of rigorous control over the payment of certain allowances to staff. worse still, there are genuine suspicions of fictitious jobs in an institution whose action has no particular interest other than to substitute itself for the various external missions of the member states. for all these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors considers that the eeas is not operational, but this report recommends that discharge be given to the eeas for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i therefore voted against this text, which seems to ignore the inherent organisational dysfunctions of this organisation, which, being in charge of diplomacy, has to deal with the divergent interests of the eu member states. however, the agency allows itself to pay staff allowances without very rigorous control and leaves the door open to possible fictitious jobs. in addition, the eeas appears to be rather disorganized in its own tasks, since the court of auditors has pointed out that it is not very rigorous in its public procurement procedures. the commission's diplomatic arm therefore seems to suffer from a serious lack of transparency which makes it unthinkable that it can vote on discharge for the implementation of its budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european external action service. the latter provided evidence of its sound management, both in terms of budget and financial resources and human resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european external action service. the court of auditors explicitly notes that the european external action service (eeas) is not operational, due, inter alia, to its administrative burden. the court notes that the allowances paid to staff are a concern because the controls are not yet sufficiently rigorous. in addition, some social benefits were paid but not all recipients were entitled to them. the lack of transparency on this is unacceptable and makes possible possible fictitious jobs. the court is also concerned about the lack of interest of the eeas in public procurement procedures, to which it has not paid sufficient attention. in general, the court finds that the quality of the information is below the required criteria and that the institution's efforts should be directed mainly to this subject. for example, the eeas did not include in this report the findings of olaf investigations and procedures, nor did it indicate the progress made with regard to the new anti-fraud strategy for eu delegations, which was scheduled to be finalised in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european external action service. the court of auditors explicitly notes that the european external action service (eeas) is not operational, due, inter alia, to its administrative burden. the court notes that the allowances paid to staff are a concern because the controls are not yet sufficiently rigorous. in addition, some social benefits were paid but not all recipients were entitled to them. the lack of transparency on this is unacceptable and makes possible possible fictitious jobs. the court is also concerned about the lack of interest of the eeas in public procurement procedures, to which it has not paid sufficient attention. in general, the court finds that the quality of the information is below the required criteria and that the institution's efforts should be directed mainly to this subject. for example, the eeas did not include in this report the findings of olaf investigations and procedures, nor did it indicate the progress made with regard to the new anti-fraud strategy for eu delegations, which was scheduled to be finalised in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report calling for the discharge to be given to the european external action service. the added value of this service has never been demonstrated. the european union does not have a coherent foreign policy, so there is no point in deploying a diplomatic service alongside the diplomatic services of the member states. foreign policy is also part of the royal functions of the state. the committee on foreign affairs rightly notes that 'significant savings can be made through better cooperation between member states in terms of foreign and security policy'. it is also right to point the finger at the overwhelming structure of the european external action service.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european external action service for the implementation of its budget. i voted against because the court of auditors explicitly notes that the european external action service (eeas) is not operational, partly because of its administrative burden. the court is also concerned about the lack of interest of the eeas in public procurement procedures. it appears that the eeas was not sufficiently rigorous or attentive at the various stages of these procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this grant: the court of auditors' report explicitly mentions that the european external action service (eeas) is 'not operational' because, among other things, of its administrative burden and the quality of the information it provides which is below the required criteria. the report also highlights the complete lack of transparency regarding the allowances paid to staff, which could possibly lead to suspicion of the existence of fictitious jobs. it was therefore logical that i should oppose this discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. i am also opposed to the existence of the european external action service. it is not based on any common policy. besides, he's not playing his part. we have seen this in the negotiations with iran, with russia, or in the actions of the states alone, which have led to positive developments. i therefore oppose the discharge for the 2013 eeas budget and vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report explicitly mentions that the european external action service (eeas) is 'not operational' due, inter alia, to its administrative burden and the quality of the information it provides which is below the required criteria. the report also highlights the complete lack of transparency regarding the allowances paid to staff, which could possibly lead to suspicion of the existence of fictitious jobs. i therefore oppose this discharge.
in writing. this report calls for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european external action service. the court of auditors itself admits that the administrative burden of the eeas causes a sclerosis which renders it inoperative. this is therefore proof of the futility of the eu's foreign policy concept, as the interests of the countries are so divergent. there are also gaps in the payment of the allowances of the staff of the institution, as some social allowances have been paid without the beneficiaries fulfilling the necessary conditions in law. the lack of transparency and rigor in public procurement is also a problem. the lack of transparency is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european external action service (eeas). discharge is granted. for its third financial year, the eeas again implemented its budget without major error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european external action service, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european external action service has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvement is possible. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors explicitly notes that the european external action service (eeas) is not operational , due, among other things, to its administrative burden. since it is a body responsible for european diplomacy, it seems logical that its functioning is particularly complex since the interests of the member states diverge. in general, the court finds that the quality of the information is below the required criteria and that the institution's efforts should be directed mainly to this subject. for example, the eeas did not include in this report the findings of olaf investigations and procedures, nor did it indicate the progress made with regard to the new anti-fraud strategy for eu delegations, which was scheduled to be finalised in 2013. the report nevertheless recommends that discharge be granted, which seems unacceptable to me. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the budget of the european external action service for the financial year 2013. parliament approved the implementation of the budget and submitted any observations to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european external action service for the implementation of its budget. the court of auditors explicitly notes that the european external action service (eeas) is not operational because of its administrative burden. since it is a body responsible for european diplomacy, it seems logical that its operation should be particularly complex, since the interests of the member states diverge. in general, the court finds that the quality of the information is below the required criteria and that the institution's efforts should be directed mainly to this subject. for example, the eeas did not include in this report the findings of olaf investigations and procedures, nor did it indicate the progress made with regard to the new anti-fraud strategy for eu delegations, which was scheduled to be finalised in 2013
in writing. parliament proposes to give the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the court of justice for the financial year 2013, and i have decided to vote against it. i regret the lack of information received during the discharge procedure as regards the list of external activities of judges and ask the court of justice to publish on its home page a register containing detailed information on the external activities of each judge. the court of justice should reduce the number of official cars made available to its members and staff and report back to parliament on the savings made. the cost of the extensive private services provided by drivers is borne by european taxpayers. the rules applied by the court of justice concerning the private use of official cars are similar to those applied in other institutions; but they need to be updated in order to reduce costs, especially in the case of private use.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because of the lack of information on the external activity of judges: they seem to use cars for strictly personal travel.
in writing. this report calls for the adoption of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013, section iv concerning the court of justice (cjeu). the report notes that in 2013, the cjeu had a total of eur 354 880000 in commitment appropriations and the overall budget implementation rate was 96,3%. it regrets the decrease in this rate in 2013 compared to 2012 (98,6%). i note, however, that a number of observations and advice can be made with regard to the court of justice for better management. it is therefore essential to make better use of the resources already available to the court of justice. secondly, in terms of organisation: more efficient scheduling of hearings, increased use of outsourcing, given the very high amount of unused appropriations (eur 2 200 000) allocated to external translation, reduction in the cost of days spent away from the staff, definition of objective criteria to determine what constitutes an excessive time taken to reach a decision, information on the reasons for the high number of contracts concluded in the framework of a negotiated procedure and a reduction in the number of official cars made available to its members and staff. it is inconceivable that the court of justice does not apply a more rigorous and transparent management even though european citizens are affected by the austerity imposed by the eu. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give a discharge to the registrar of the court of justice in respect of the implementation of the court's budget for the financial year 2013. in this report, much information was not provided, in particular the list of external activities of judges. that is why i voted against the adoption of this report, which i consider incomplete and too complacent.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013 in its section iv concerning the court of justice. the information provided remained incomplete during the discharge procedure, in particular as regards the list of external activities of judges. i am also doubtful about the number of official cars made available to the members of the court of justice and its staff: let us not forget that the cost of the extensive private services provided by the chauffeurs is borne by the taxpayers of the member states. finally, questions may be raised about the costs of the "off-the-wall" days.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the court of justice of the european union. i also agree with the report's comments on improving the court's external communication. finally, i am attentive to the development of this institution, which is bound to experience more and more litigation.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to give the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2013, and i have decided to vote against it. i regret the lack of information received during the discharge procedure as regards the list of external activities of judges and ask the court of justice to publish on its home page a register containing detailed information on the external activities of each judge. the court of justice should reduce the number of official cars made available to its members and staff and report back to parliament on the savings made. the cost of the extensive private services provided by drivers is borne by european taxpayers. finally, the rules applied by the court of justice concerning the use of official cars for private purposes are similar to those applied in other institutions; the commission has also proposed that the use of the term 'commercial' be replaced by the term 'commercial'.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to give the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to vote against it. i regret the lack of information received during the discharge procedure as regards the list of external activities of judges and ask the court of justice to publish on its home page a register containing detailed information on the external activities of each judge. the court of justice should reduce the number of official cars made available to its members and staff and report back to parliament on the savings made. the cost of the extensive private services provided by drivers is borne by european taxpayers. the rules applied by the court of justice concerning the use of official cars for private purposes are similar to those applied in other institutions; the commission has also proposed that the use of the term 'commercial' be replaced by the term 'commercial'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2013. the payments for the year ended 31 december 2013 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are, on the whole, free from significant errors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report calling for the discharge to be given to the court of justice, in the light of the observations of the committee on budgetary control. the commission regrets in particular the lack of information received during the discharge procedure as regards the list of external activities of judges. i agree with the committee when it calls on the court of justice to reduce the number of official cars made available to its members and staff and when it asks the court to update the rules on the use of official cars for private purposes. it is also high time to identify the causes of the considerable differences between the translation costs of the court and those of the other institutions of the european union.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this discharge: the court of auditors itself notes the excessive expenditure on the use of the institution's official cars and points to a lack of information on the external activities of judges. it is therefore logical to oppose this discharge.
in writing. ‒ in the midst of the chaos in the implementation of the budget, the court of justice is a model. the court of justice has therefore drawn up a comprehensive and detailed annual activity report and included in it comprehensive information on the management of its human resources, as requested by parliament. however, the report advocates the use of technological translation tools more often in order to reduce costs. this can only be done at the expense of the quality of the translations and thus of the access of european citizens to this court. i vote against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors itself notes the excessive expenditure on the use of the institution's official cars and the lack of information on the external activities of judges. i therefore oppose this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the discharge should not be granted because of excessive operating expenses and in particular lack of precision on the use of vehicles of the cjeu or the off-site activities of judges.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013, section iv court of justice, even though the lack of information on the external activities of judges is evident. to avoid any potential conflict of interest, these activities, which are commonplace in the eu institutions, should be published in detail. the court of justice is a damaging institution and substantial savings must be made, such as the number of official cars. it is unacceptable that the lavish expenses of judges, whose decisions are often contrary to the concerns of the european people, should be borne by the taxpayer. this is all the more so as the european union imposes budget cuts throughout europe in the name of austerity dogma. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the court of justice for the 2013 budget. discharge is granted as the court has implemented its budget without any significant deficiency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the court of justice, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the court's budget. the court of justice has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ a number of expenditure items of the court of justice appear excessive, in particular everything related to the external activities of the judges and the car system made available to them. the report recommends discharge and i think that is unacceptable. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the court of justice of the european union for the financial year 2013, in support of the court's exercise.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to give the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2013. the court of justice must reduce the number of official cars made available to its members and staff and report to parliament on the savings made. in times of crisis and budget cuts in general, the costs of out-of-hours days for staff of the union institutions should be reduced and those days should, as far as possible, be organised at the headquarters of the institutions, as their added value does not justify such high expenditure. i am voting against this text.
in writing. i have decided to abstain from this report calling for discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by an independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl in order to ensure that the principles of transparency and accountability which the court applies to the entities it supervises are also applied to the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i note that the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by an independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl so that the principles of transparency and accountability which it applies to the entities it controls are also applied to it. i took note of the opinion of the auditors that 'the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the court of auditors for the financial year 2013' and i abstained.
in writing. this report proposes to grant the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the institution, in the interests of transparency, decided to have its accounts audited by an independent external auditor pwc. the audit carried out by this firm validates the budgetary integrity and the financial situation of the court of auditors for 2013. however, i am not convinced of the choice of this audit firm as it is at the heart of the luxembourg leaks scandal and a tax evasion scheme. this firm is part of the big four. pricewaterhousecoopers, along with three other firms, is the financial world's biggest gambler. just last year, pwc was sued for not seeing in tesco's accounts an error of... €335 million. despite my reservations, but considering that the audit shows a healthy situation, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to give the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget. the annual audit of the court of auditors' accounts is carried out by an independent audit firm called price waterhouse cooper sarl. the audit firm's opinion reports a regular situation for the financial year 2013. in the absence of any information to the contrary, we can only take note of the opinion delivered to the european parliament. that is why i abstained on the vote on discharge to the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain on this report which proposes to give the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of auditors' budget for the financial year 2013. it is true that no major irregularities were found by the independent external auditor, who ensures compliance with the principles of transparency and accountability that the court of auditors itself applies to the entities it monitors. however, i question the legitimacy of this court and therefore could not vote in full in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report calling for discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by an independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl in order to ensure that the principles of transparency and accountability which the court applies to the entities it supervises are also applied to the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' annual accounts are audited by an independent external auditor to ensure that transparency and accountability are respected. although no major error is pointed out, we are against the principle of systematically granting discharges, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report gives the court of auditors a clean bill of health for the management of its 2013 budget. i regret that the certification of his accounts is entrusted to a private firm in the city, closely linked to the world of finance and its interests. the commission has also been informed that the luxembourg tax authorities have not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the taxable amount of the tax is not exceeded. but we must be calm; the group states on its website that it values integrity and is involved in the fight against corruption and financial crime as part of its social responsibility. this is not serious. how can you trust a company with a history of fraud to certify accounts ? the wolf is in the sheepfold and we invited him in. i vote against the discharge.
in writing. this report proposes to grant the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the institution, which is to be irreproachable, decided to have its accounts audited by an independent external auditor pwc, in order to ensure that the principles of independence and transparency are respected. although the choice of this audit firm may be questionable given that it is suspected of having facilitated tax evasion, the audit validates the budgetary integrity and the financial situation of the court of auditors for the financial year 2013. in view of these considerations, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the court of auditors for the 2013 budget. discharge is granted on the understanding that the court of auditors, in order not to control itself, is audited by an independent external firm. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the court of auditors, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the court's budget. the court of auditors has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has its own accounts audited by the private company pricewaterhousecoopers. the report is very uncritical and does not allow a definite opinion to be reached on the functioning of the court. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for implementation of the court of auditors' budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to give the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by an independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl in order to ensure that the principles of transparency and accountability which the court applies to the entities it supervises are also applied to the court of auditors. my vote is against the motion.
in writing. i opposed this discharge because i am concerned about the huge disparities in translation costs between the various european institutions; therefore, i wonder about the causes of these disparities and ask for solutions to end this imbalance and achieve harmonisation of translation costs with maximum respect for quality and linguistic diversity.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. the report notes that in 2013, the eesc's budget amounted to eur 130 104 400, with a utilization rate of 94,1%; it regrets the decrease in this rate in 2013 compared to 2012 (96,8%). this report should therefore grant the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge for the financial year 2013. i have decided to vote against the very existence of this institution, which is proving to be costly and useless and whose abolition was called for in a motion for a resolution by mrs le pen.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. however, there are huge disparities in translation costs between the various european institutions and in particular the european economic and social council. this institution, which has never proved useful to the member states, is a veritable gas factory, plagued by conflicts with the staff (dismissals, convictions before the civil service tribunal of the union). rather than making recommendations that will not be acted upon, marine le pen proposed, in a motion for a resolution (b8-0400/2014), simply to abolish this institution which does not meet any pressing need other than to replace unelected parliamentarians and other brussels technocrats at the end of their careers. i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the committee's budget for the financial year 2013. as well as doubting the usefulness of this body, i would like to recall the judgment of the civil service tribunal of the european union of 22 may 2014 condemning the eesc for breaching the eu charter of fundamental rights in the dismissal of one of its staff in 2013. the court also recalled the judgment of 8 october 2014 condemning the eesc in the context of the denunciation of irregularities against the former secretary-general by the head of the eesc's legal service. these persistent serious infringements, together with the legal costs they have entailed, further undermine the eesc's legitimacy.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this discharge because i am concerned about the huge disparities in translation costs between the various european institutions; therefore, i wonder about the causes of these disparities and ask for solutions to end this imbalance and achieve a harmonisation of translation costs with maximum respect for quality and linguistic diversity.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this discharge because i am concerned about the huge disparities in translation costs between the various european institutions; therefore, i wonder about the causes of these disparities and ask for solutions to end this imbalance and achieve a harmonisation of translation costs with maximum respect for quality and linguistic diversity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the economic and social committee. this vote, based on the annual report of the court of auditors, validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. it also makes a number of recommendations. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report calling for a discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee. the report stresses in particular 'the need to improve the visibility of the institution through an adequate strengthening of the information and communication policy', while expressing concern 'that several important events planned for 2013 have been cancelled or postponed'. he calls on the eesc to plan better and to streamline the organisation of internal events, but that is not the problem. the european economic and social committee is a useless and costly institution which should simply be abolished.
in writing. ‒ i vote against this discharge. the report mentions several convictions of the eesc for serious breaches of the eu charter of fundamental rights and inconsistent translation expenditure. i therefore oppose this discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the economic and social committee is only one component of the european budget for 2013, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. the report envisages granting the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge for the financial year 2013. i have decided to vote against the report, since i do not believe that this institution exists at all and it is costly and useless.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european economic and social committee. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the economic and social committee, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the economic and social committee has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking account of the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the serious dysfunctions of the economic and social committee, which was condemned in a dismissal case and after the head of the legal service denounced irregularities by the former secretary-general. as i am hostile in principle to the very existence of an economic and social committee at european level and as these dysfunctions are more than worrying, i refuse to grant discharge to this institution and therefore vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2013. the european parliament is a key body of the european union which provides an additional perspective in the analysis of proposals made by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to give the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2013. there are huge disparities in translation costs between the different european institutions; the interinstitutional working group on translation must therefore identify the causes of these disparities and propose solutions to eliminate this imbalance and achieve harmonisation of translation costs. it is necessary to improve the visibility of this costly institution by means of an adequate strengthening of the information and communication policy. i vote against.
in writing. the report calls for the secretary-general of the committee of the regions to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2013, which is why i have decided to vote against. the committee's budget is purely administrative, with a large amount being devoted to expenditure on staff and the remainder to buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating costs. however, note: the productivity of the internal translation service has fallen very sharply, which undermines the eu's multilingualism and equal access to documents for citizens, and therefore represents a danger to the defence of nations within the union's institutions.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against giving discharge to this institution, which i do not see as being of much use.
in writing. this report shall give the secretary-general of the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2013. notes from the court's report that the court of auditors' audit of the accounts of the european parliament and of the council for the financial year 2013 was carried out in accordance with the financial regulation; it regrets the decrease in this rate in 2013 compared to 2012 (98,2%). this institution must allow for the establishment of a direct dialogue between the eu and the territorial authorities, in particular the regions, and thus the nation. in addition, its management is contested as a large part is reserved for personnel expenditure. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends that the committee of the regions be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. if this budget is purely administrative and only mentions a sharp drop in the productivity of the internal translation service, the real question is the usefulness of the activities of such an institution. it is possible to organise regular meetings between the representatives of the regions in the european parliament's buildings without the committee of the regions having to have its own equipment and staff. as such, marine le pen tabled a motion for a resolution (b8 0397/2014) calling for the committee of the regions to be abolished outright. that is why i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote on this report which calls for the secretary-general of the committee of the regions to be given discharge for the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2013. the committee of the regions is a veritable bureaucracy, with a large proportion of its expenditure going to staff, the rest to property and operating costs. a real empty shell whose main action is therefore to suck the taxpayers' money from the member states to finance itself. the only functional aspect of the committee of the regions, the internal translation service, also seems to be losing productivity, thus undermining the eu's multilingualism.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the secretary-general of the committee of the regions to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2013. the committee's budget is purely administrative, with a large amount being devoted to expenditure on staff and the remainder to buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating costs. however, it should be remembered that the productivity of the internal translation service has fallen very sharply, which undermines the eu's multilingualism and equal access to documents for citizens, and therefore represents a danger for the defence of nations within the union's institutions. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the secretary-general of the committee of the regions to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2013, which is why i have decided to vote against it. the committee's budget is purely administrative, with a large amount being devoted to expenditure on staff and the remainder to buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating costs. however, note: the productivity of the internal translation service has fallen very sharply, which undermines the eu's multilingualism and equal access to documents for citizens, and therefore represents a danger to the defence of nations within the union's institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the committee of the regions, which represents the interests of local and regional authorities in brussels. this vote, based on the annual report of the court of auditors, validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. it also makes a number of recommendations. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the secretary-general of the committee of the regions a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted, like the other members of the national front, against the report calling for a discharge on the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget. the report drawn up by the committee on budgetary control notes in particular the creation of a new political group (pge) in the committee and the 'limited financial impact of its creation in 2013'. the committee of the regions has a fundamental problem: its representatives sit according to their political affiliation, rather than their regional representation. this assembly therefore tends to behave like a miniature version of the european parliament. the report stresses the need to improve the visibility of the institution "by strengthening the appropriate information and communication policy", while the committee of the regions is a useless and costly institution that should simply be abolished.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this discharge: the budget of this institution is purely administrative since only the expenditure on buildings and staff is covered by the european union. in addition to being purely administrative, the court of auditors' report emphasises that the productivity of the internal translation service has fallen very sharply, which undermines the eu's multilingualism.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the committee of the regions' budget is only one component of the european budget for 2013, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. the report proposes to grant the secretary-general of the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2013. this institution, which seeks to go beyond the state level to allow for a direct dialogue between the eu and the local and regional authorities, is highly questionable. the management of the fund is also inadequate, since a large part of it is earmarked for staff expenditure. that is why i am against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the committee of the regions. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the text nevertheless calls on the committee to make a number of progresses, particularly in the area of reducing interpretation costs. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the committee of the regions, a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the committee's budget. the committee of the regions has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the report only mentions an administrative budget and one ends up wondering if the committee of the regions is doing anything at all. the low productivity of the translation service will not allow most citizens of the member states to check for themselves. the usefulness of this institution is thus hardly demonstrated in the use of the money allocated to it. in these circumstances, there is no question of my agreeing to grant him a discharge and i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ the committee of the regions is a key institution of the european union which enables local and regional actors to be represented in brussels and to make their voices heard on commission proposals. i underline the important role of this body by voting in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the secretary-general of the committee of the regions to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2013. the committee's budget is purely administrative, with a large amount being devoted to expenditure on staff and the remainder to buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating costs. however, it should be noted that the productivity of the internal translation service has fallen sharply, which undermines the eu's multilingualism and citizens' equal access to documents. i am voting against this complacent text.
in writing. the report calls for discharge to be given to the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. although no significant errors were found by the court of auditors, it found that financial programming was at least deficient and concluded that budget implementation needed to be significantly improved. this is all the more so as the ombudsman does not include in his activity report the rate of unused interpretation services requested. the wide disparity in translation costs between the various eu institutions is particularly worrying. such disparity could in some cases lead to mismanagement and ultimately lack of transparency. finally, the findings of the olaf inquiries into the ombudsman are not included in the activity report. a substantial effort should be made in this direction in the next few years. i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. - i voted against this complacency report.
in writing. this report must give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013, section viii concerning the european ombudsman. the report notes that the ombudsman's budget in 2013 was eur 9 731 371 and that 98,20% of the total appropriations were committed and 91,82% paid, with an implementation rate of 98,20% (95,88% in 2012). finally, it points to shortcomings in financial planning and budget implementation, in particular the rate of interpretation services or the real estate policy. in those circumstances, i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends that discharge be given in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013. although no serious error was found, the court of auditors nevertheless found that the financial programming was deficient. for example, the european ombudsman does not include in his activity report the rate of interpreting services requested and not used. the disparities in translation costs between the various institutions of the union are quite worrying. such disparities could raise fears of mismanagement and lack of transparency in the implementation of the budget. in addition, the findings of olaf's inquiries into the european ombudsman are also not included in the activity report. for all these reasons i voted against the discharge and the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this text which calls for a discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013. in addition to the financial programming which the court of auditors considered to be inadequate, a marked improvement in the implementation of the budget is expected. in addition, shortcomings were found in that the ombudsman failed to include in his report the rate of interpretation services which he had used and which had not been used. however, this is a real challenge, as there is a significant gap in translation costs between each eu institution; the risks are well known: mismanagement, lack of transparency, all threats to institutions financed by the european taxpayer. finally, the conclusions of the olaf report are absent from the report, which contributes to the lack of visibility of the european ombudsman's activities.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. although no significant errors were found by the court of auditors, it found that financial programming was at least deficient and concluded that there was a need to significantly improve budget implementation. this is all the more so as the ombudsman does not include in his activity report the rate of unused interpretation services requested. the wide disparity in translation costs between the various eu institutions is particularly worrying. such disparity could in some cases lead to mismanagement and ultimately lack of transparency. finally, the findings of the olaf inquiries into the ombudsman are not included in the activity report. a substantial effort should be made in this direction in the next few years. i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. although no significant errors were found by the court of auditors, it found that financial programming was at least deficient and concluded that budget implementation needed to be significantly improved. this is all the more so as the ombudsman does not include in his activity report the rate of unused interpretation services requested. the wide disparity in translation costs between the various eu institutions is particularly worrying. such disparity could in some cases lead to mismanagement and ultimately lack of transparency. finally, the findings of the olaf inquiries into the ombudsman are not included in the activity report. a substantial effort should be made in this direction in the next few years. i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european ombudsman who is responsible for investigating cases of maladministration in the european institutions. this vote, based on the examination of the annual accounts and the annual report of the court of auditors, validates the use made of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. i voted against because although no significant error was found by the court of auditors, it found that financial programming was at least deficient and concluded that there was a need to significantly improve the implementation of the budget. this is all the more so as the ombudsman does not include in his activity report the rate of unused interpretation services requested.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this discharge. the court of auditors' report itself highlights the poor financial planning of this institution and its lack of transparency. moreover, as the court's report points out, an investigation by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) into the european ombudsman is currently underway, and the results of this investigation do not appear in the activity report. in these circumstances it is more just to vote against.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european ombudsman is only one component of the european budget for 2013, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. this report proposes to grant the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013, section viii european ombudsman. it points to shortcomings in financial programming and budget implementation, in particular by mentioning in its activity report the rate of interpretation services. in these circumstances, it is impossible to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european ombudsman. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. in addition, the ombudsman met his target of closing 70% of inquiries in less than one year. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ombudsman's discharge, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the ombudsman has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, must continue his efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ although no significant errors were found by the court of auditors, it found that financial programming was at least deficient and concluded that budget implementation needed to be significantly improved. this is all the more so as the ombudsman does not include in his activity report the rate of unused interpretation services requested. the wide disparity in translation costs between the various eu institutions is particularly worrying. such disparity could in some cases lead to mismanagement and ultimately lack of transparency. finally, the findings of the olaf inquiries into the ombudsman are not present in the report. in these circumstances, i am refusing to grant discharge and am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2013. this instrument is fundamental to ensuring a genuine dialogue between european citizens and the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european ombudsman in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. although no significant errors were found by the court of auditors, it found that financial programming was at least deficient and concluded that budget implementation needed to be significantly improved. this is all the more so as the ombudsman does not include in his activity report the rate of unused interpretation services requested. the wide disparity in translation costs between the various eu institutions is particularly worrying. such disparity could in some cases lead to mismanagement and ultimately lack of transparency. finally, the findings of the olaf inquiries into the ombudsman are not included in the activity report. a substantial effort should be made in this direction in the next few years. i vote against.
in writing. the european parliament proposes to give a discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market. it assists national regulatory authorities in their regulatory activity at european level and, where necessary, coordinates their action. we note with concern that the agency had eur 5 500 000 in cash at the end of the financial year; as a result, i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which ignores the internal dysfunctions and above all the violation of the privacy of the employees.
in writing. this report shall give the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the edps's mission is to protect personal and privacy data and to promote good practice in the eu institutions. the edps had a total budget of eur 7 661 409 and an overall budget implementation rate of 84,7% (compared to 83,2% in 2012). the report considers this a positive development and calls for further efforts to ensure that this rate continues to improve. however, internal rules on reporting malfunctions have not yet been adopted. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends that the european data protection supervisor (edps) should be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the edps is an independent supervisory authority whose mission is to ensure the protection of personal data, privacy and the promotion of good practice in the union institutions and bodies. for example, it monitors the processing of personal data by the administration of the union institutions. although no significant budgetary errors were found and the rate of budget implementation improved, there were serious delays in the adoption of internal rules on the reporting of irregularities and the protection of the privacy of employees in the various administrations. for this major reason, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i have rejected the parliament's proposal to give the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. despite the importance of its mission to protect personal data and privacy, the delay in adopting internal rules on whistleblowing jeopardises the control that the controller must exercise over the processing of personal data by the european administration. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the term 'privacy' in the context of the eu's privacy shield.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european data protection supervisor. i welcome the fact that its status as an independent authority is reflected in the implementation of its budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament proposes to give a discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market. it assists national regulatory authorities in their regulatory activity at european level and, where necessary, coordinates their action. we note with concern that the agency had eur 5 500 000 in cash at the end of the financial year; as a result, i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the european data protection supervisor, which validates the use of resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous financial years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the european data protection supervisor (edps) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the european data protection supervisor or edps is an independent supervisory authority whose objective is to protect personal and private data and to promote good practice in the european institutions. the court's report expresses concern at the delay in adopting internal rules on the reporting of irregularities, which could eventually lead to mismanagement. i therefore opposed the granting of the grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european data protection supervisor is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. this report proposes to grant the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the edps's mission is to protect personal and privacy data and to promote good practice in the eu institutions. however, internal rules on reporting malfunctions have not yet been adopted. it is imperative that these rules are applied. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european data protection supervisor. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european data protection supervisor, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european data protection supervisor has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, should continue to work on areas for improvement. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights a large number of internal malfunctions. i therefore refuse to grant discharge to this institution which seems incapable of applying to itself what it is supposed to check in others and i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the data protection supervisor's budget. in a context where the control of internet trade is becoming increasingly difficult, it is important to support the european data protection body.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the european data protection supervisor to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the edps is an independent supervisory authority whose objective is to protect personal data and privacy and to promote good practice in the eu institutions and bodies. the delay in adopting internal rules on whistleblowing is of particular concern with regard to the violation of employees' privacy. i vote against.
in writing. i voted against the report calling for a discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013. firstly, 10 agencies are to blame for still not having concluded a headquarters agreement when this should be a priority, and for having committed appropriations in seven cases unjustifiably or on the basis of overestimated needs. in addition, a serious assessment should be made of the possibility of bringing together agencies with similar missions to avoid wasting resources. finally, i also deplore, as does the court of auditors, the lack of visibility and democratic accountability of the agencies, which are generally unknown to the public and vulnerable to outside influence from specialised lobbyists.
in writing. the report calls for discharge and i have decided to vote against this text. however, 10 agencies have not yet reached an agreement on their headquarters, which should be a priority. the court observed that in seven cases appropriations were committed unjustifiably or on the basis of overestimated needs. it expressed doubts about the geographical location of the agencies, which are often located far from the other european institutions to preserve their independence. the court of auditors calls on the agencies to improve the geographical balance as regards staff. the lack of visibility and democratic accountability of the agencies, which are generally unknown to the public and vulnerable to outside influence by specialised lobbyists, is also to be deplored. it is noted that only one agency - the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) - publishes its aar in all the official languages of the union, while three agencies translate the summary of their aar into 23 official languages, with the exception of gaelic.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. - i voted against this complacency report.
in writing. this report shall give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013. in 2013, the budget of the agencies amounted to some eur 2 billion, representing an increase of 25% compared to 2012 and 1,4% of the general budget of the union. they also employ some 6,500 permanent and temporary staff. many questions remain, including the fact that too many appropriations are carried over for most agencies (24 out of 32), recruitment procedures are often marred by errors, the problem of respecting multilingualism in agencies or the risk of their being subject to external influences. nor is anything being done to streamline these agencies, which sometimes have similar competences. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends that discharge be given to the union agencies for the implementation of the budget. no study has been carried out to assess the desirability of bringing together certain agencies which perform similar or complementary tasks in order to combat overspending. in addition, the court found that in seven cases appropriations were committed without justification or on the basis of needs which were completely overestimated. furthermore, no communication was made on the number of full-time equivalent jobs. finally, the lack of visibility and democratic control places these agencies under the influence of specialised lobbying firms and calls into question their integrity and independence. for all these reasons i voted against the discharge and against the motion for a resolution by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for the discharge to be given to the eu agencies for the 2013 financial year. it seems to me incoherent to grant this discharge when ten agencies have not yet reached an agreement on their seat, leaving the door open to unnecessary expenditure if it should turn out that some of the agencies are carrying out similar tasks. the court of auditors also found that in seven cases appropriations had been committed unjustifiably. finally, there is a real problem with the lack of transparency about the actual staffing of these agencies and their relationships with the networks of influence that revolve around them.
in writing. i supported this report which gives an overview of the performance, financial management and control of the union agencies. it is important to do this on an annual basis, as the role of the agencies continues to grow exponentially year on year. these correspond to substantial budgetary items. in a context of budgetary constraints, i particularly support the report's remarks on the need to find synergies between agencies.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge and i have decided to vote against this text. however, ten agencies have not yet reached an agreement on their headquarters, which should be a priority. the court observed that in seven cases appropriations were committed unjustifiably or on the basis of overestimated needs. it expressed doubts about the geographical location of the agencies, which are often located far from the other european institutions to preserve their independence. the court of auditors calls on the agencies to improve the geographical balance as regards staff. the lack of visibility and democratic accountability of the agencies, which are generally unknown to the public and vulnerable to outside influence by specialised lobbyists, is also to be deplored. it is noted that only one agency - the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) - publishes its aar in all the official languages of the union, while three agencies translate the summary of their aar into 23 official languages, with the exception of gaelic.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge and i have decided to vote against this text. however, 10 agencies have not yet reached an agreement on their headquarters, which should be a priority. the court observed that in seven cases appropriations were committed unjustifiably or on the basis of overestimated needs. it expressed doubts about the geographical location of the agencies, which are often located far from the other european institutions to preserve their independence. the court of auditors calls on the agencies to improve the geographical balance as regards staff. the lack of visibility and democratic accountability of the agencies, which are generally unknown to the public and vulnerable to outside influence by specialised lobbyists, is also to be deplored. it is noted that only one agency - the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) - publishes its aar in all the official languages of the union, while three agencies translate the summary of their aar into 23 official languages, with the exception of gaelic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge on the performance, financial management and control of the european union agencies, which validates the use of resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives discharge to the european union agencies for the implementation of their budgets for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. not only does this report assess a 2013 discharge, which is too late, but these agencies also seem to be characterized by redundancy of missions and chronic waste. it should also be noted that these agencies lack transparency in terms of both their resources and staff and their activities: they remain unknown to european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report presents a cross-sectional analysis of the budgets of the countless european agencies created in recent years. it also honestly notes the lack of visibility and democratic accountability of the agencies, which are generally unknown to the public, but without calling into question the anarchic proliferation of these agencies. he prefers to invent complex mechanisms for mutualisation and cost reduction between agencies. the commission is proposing to reduce the geographical distance from the other eu institutions, which is the same as asking which ones are all in belgium, without taking into account the possible opinion of the states which currently host them. i deplore this undemocratic bureaucratic approach and therefore vote against this discharge and against this report.
in writing. this report envisages granting discharge in this case. however, nothing is being done to consider the rationalisation of these bodies, whose competences often overlap. the court of auditors has identified seven cases of appropriations being committed unjustifiably. and transparency is not always guaranteed, since their existence is often not even known by the citizens. the harmful influence of pressure groups on these vulnerable organs can also be denounced. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 budget discharge for the european union agencies, whose number has increased from 3 in 2000 to 32 in 2013. the report stresses that the agencies have high rates of carry-over of committed appropriations, which goes against the budgetary principle of annuality. it also questions the geographical location of the agencies, which are often far from the european institutions, depriving them of savings in staff travel and synergies in the sharing of administrative services.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge. however, 10 agencies have not yet agreed on their headquarters, whereas this should be a priority and the possibility of bringing together those with similar tasks should be assessed. in seven cases, appropriations were committed unjustified or on the basis of overestimated needs. agencies are often located far from other european institutions to preserve their independence from the agencies, which is not justified. all agencies should publish their actual number of full-time equivalents, taking into account not only temporary and contract staff but also time provided by external contractors. finally, agencies are generally unknown to the public and vulnerable to outside influence from specialised lobbyists. because of all these problems, i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the performance, financial management and control of the european union agencies. this discharge authority enables meps to monitor the implementation of the budget and to assess the proper functioning of the european agencies.
in writing. the european parliament proposes to give a discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013, and i have decided to vote against it. the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market. it assists national regulatory authorities in their regulatory activity at european level and, where necessary, coordinates their action. but no agreement was reached on the contributions to the agency by the member states of the european free trade association. on the other hand, the agency had eur 5 500 000 in cash at the end of the year, which reflects a far too high level of non-commitment of appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against giving discharge to this institution whose cash management seems to me to be open to question.
in writing. the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 11.930.220, representing an increase of 64.74% compared to 201 and which can be explained by the recent establishment of the agency and the implementation of the remit regulation. this report provides for the discharge to be given to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. the objective of acer is to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market. energy policy should not be a matter for the union, but it is for the member states to decide their energy policy. i also oppose the europeanist desire to deregulate these sectors. finally, the agency must also exercise more rigorous cash management. that's why i decided against your report.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends that the discharge be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013. the agency contributes in particular to ensuring the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market. without going into the rate of budget implementation, it should be noted with concern that the agency had eur 5 500 000 in cash at the end of the year. the holding of such a sum in cash raises the question of the sincerity of the 2013 budget. this should lead to a new audit by the court of auditors of the union to determine the reasons justifying such cash management. in the meantime, i voted against the discharge and the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i refused to vote on the discharge to be given to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. the successful fulfilment of its main mission - to assist national regulatory authorities in their regulatory activity at european level and to coordinate their actions - is jeopardised by the fact that no agreement has been reached on the contributions to the agency of the member states of the european free trade association. there are also doubts about the agency's cash management: it had eur 5 500 000 in cash at the end of the financial year, which is more than doubtful.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. i would note, however, that acer must follow closely our recommendations on the management of its cash, which at present is struggling to move beyond the very short term.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament proposes to give a discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market. it assists national regulatory authorities in their regulatory activity at european level and, where necessary, coordinates their action. however, it was found that the agency had eur 5 500 000 in cash at the end of the financial year; as a result, i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament proposes to give the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to vote against it. the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market. it assists national regulatory authorities in their regulatory activity at european level and, where necessary, coordinates their action. but no agreement was reached on the contributions to the agency by the member states of the european free trade association. on the other hand, the agency had eur 5 500 000 in cash at the end of the year, which reflects a far too high level of non-commitment of appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this discharge. acer contributes to the smooth functioning of the gas and electricity market in europe, in particular by assisting national regulatory authorities in their activities. however, no agreement has been finalised on member states' contributions to the agency. this lack of transparency encourages us to oppose this discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) is only one component of the european budget for 2013, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. this report proposes to grant the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. the objective of acer is to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market. i believe that energy policy should not be a matter for the union, especially when it is subject to economic objectives, such as deregulation of the sector on the american model, but also geopolitical ones. it is up to the member states to decide their energy policy. the agency must also exercise greater control over its cash management. i therefore decided against your report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer). discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the annual activity report shows that no agreement has been reached on the contributions to acer by the member states of the european free trade association. in addition, the agency had eur 5 500 000 in cash at the end of the year. this shows that the management is more than doubtful and raises the question of the sincerity of its budget. in these circumstances, i of course refuse to grant discharge and i shall vote against the report submitted to parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. as energy issues are now at the centre of the union's and the juncker commission's concerns, it is important to support the european bodies dealing with energy issues.
in writing. i voted against this text which calls for a discharge to be given to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. although the office's budget implementation rates have improved compared to 2012, the court notes with concern that the cancellation rate of the 2012 carry-overs remains relatively high. the court of auditors' report notes that a very large majority of reimbursements to experts were late. other late payments are also delayed by an average of 78 days (with a target of 30 days).
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against giving discharge to berec when a majority of the experts' reimbursements were concerned about delays.
in writing. the final budget of the office for the financial year 2013 was eur 3 557 219. of this total, the overall union contribution to the office's budget was eur 3,556 million. this report proposes to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors nevertheless notes that the cancellation rate of appropriations carried over from 2012 remains quite high and that a large majority of reimbursements to experts were delayed, as were other late payments (78 days on average). in view of these explanations, i have therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013. the court nevertheless found that the rate of cancellation of carried over appropriations remained very high. in addition, many of the reimbursements due to experts were seriously delayed. the same principle applies to late payments, which are 78 days late against a maximum target of 30 days. the report is also uncritical and shows a glaring lack of serious inquiry. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which seeks to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013. indeed, with a high cancellation rate of appropriations carried over from 2012 and other late payments which are also 78 days late on average (against a target of 30 days), it seems irresponsible to grant this discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. the latter must remedy the chronic delay in reimbursing the experts it calls on.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which calls for a discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013. although the office's budget implementation rates have improved compared to 2012, the court notes with concern that the cancellation rate of the 2012 carry-overs remains relatively high. the court of auditors' report notes that a very large majority of reimbursements to experts were delayed. other late payments are also delayed by an average of 78 days (against a target of 30 days).
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which calls for a discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013. although the office's budget implementation rates have improved compared to 2012, the court notes with concern that the cancellation rate of the 2012 carry-overs remains relatively high. the court of auditors' report notes that a very large majority of reimbursements to experts were late. other late payments are also delayed by an average of 78 days (with a target of 30 days).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of berec, which validates the use of resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives discharge to the management committee of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i voted against because although the office's budget implementation rates have improved compared to 2012, the court notes with concern that the cancellation rate of the 2012 carry-overs remains relatively high. the court of auditors' report notes in particular that a very large majority of reimbursements to experts were delayed.
in writing. - i opposed this grant. the office is characterised by a high rate of cancellation of loans and serious problems with the timing of the vast majority of repayments (on average 78 days instead of 30). this is not acceptable for a european office.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. ‒ although the office's budget implementation rates have improved compared to 2012, the court notes with concern that the cancellation rate of the 2012 carry-overs remains relatively high. the court of auditors' report notes that a very large majority of reimbursements to experts were late. other late payments are also delayed by an average of 78 days (with a target of 30 days). i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the discharge must be refused because of the reservations expressed by the court of auditors, which notes with concern that the cancellation rate of the appropriations carried over from 2012 remains relatively high. the court of auditors' report notes that a very large majority of reimbursements to experts were delayed. other late payments are also delayed by an average of 78 days, with a target of 30 days.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013. this body is highly questionable as it promotes the tenets of neoclassical economics within the telecommunications sector. moreover, its management is questionable insofar as the cancellation rate of appropriations carried over to 2012 is high. in these circumstances, i cannot give discharge to this institution. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). discharge is granted, the budget of eur 3.57 million having been implemented without significant error. the commission has also made good progress in implementing the recommendations accompanying the 2012 discharge. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the body's budget. the authority has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ although the office's budget implementation rates have improved compared to 2012, the cancellation rate of the 2012 carry-overs remains relatively high. the court of auditors' report notes that a very large majority of reimbursements to experts were delayed. other late payments are also delayed by an average of 78 days (with a target of 30 days). in these circumstances, i reject the discharge and therefore vote against parliament's report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013.
in writing. i voted against this report calling for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013. the commission's internal audit service considered that certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls identified. the directorate presented an action plan to address these deficiencies. the measures taken will be monitored. the court of auditors has noted that the formal delegations granted by the authorising officers do not always correspond to the authorisations for operations in the accounting system.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this complacency report
in writing. the centre's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 52.193.667, representing an increase of 8,08% compared to 2012. the report proposes to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the eu for the financial year 2013. it is regrettable that a lack of controls was carried out, which meant that certain high-risk procedures could not be audited. furthermore, the accounting management seems unprofessional and presents a risk. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends that discharge be given in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013. the centre's mission is to provide translation services to any institution or body of the european union which requests them. the internal audit service considered that certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls identified. finally, the report appears to be less critical than complacent. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which seeks to grant a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the eu for the financial year 2013. according to the commission's internal audit service, some procedures could not be audited because of the lack of controls. the court of auditors also found that the formal delegations granted by the authorising officers did not always correspond to the authorisations for operations in the accounting system. given these shortcomings, it is curious that the parliament's report should be so complacent towards the translation centre for eu bodies. in view of these facts, i had to reject the text.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the eu. i am also concerned about the inexplicable differences in cost and efficiency of the translation services of the union's institutions, bodies and agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013. the commission's internal audit service considered that certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. management presented an action plan to correct these deficiencies. the measures taken will be monitored. the court of auditors has noted that the formal delegations granted by the authorising officers do not always correspond to the authorisations for operations in the accounting system.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013. the commission's internal audit service considered that certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls identified. the directorate presented an action plan to address these deficiencies. the measures taken will be monitored. the court of auditors has noted that the formal delegations granted by the authorising officers do not always correspond to the authorisations for operations in the accounting system.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge for the translation centre for the eu bodies, which validates the use of resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous financial years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i voted against because the commission's internal audit service considered that certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan because of the lack or insufficiency of controls found.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against the discharge. in fact, some procedures could not even be audited because of the lack or insufficiency of controls found, and the court of auditors noted that formal delegations granted by the authorising officers did not correspond to what appeared in the centre's accounting system. these inconsistencies cast doubt on the proper management of the centre, which is why dominique martin opposes the granting of discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. ‒ the commission's internal audit service considered that certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls identified. the directorate presented an action plan to address these deficiencies. the measures taken will be monitored. the court of auditors has noted that the formal delegations granted by the authorising officers do not always correspond to the authorisations for operations in the accounting system. i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the report proposes to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the eu for the financial year 2013. due to the absence or lack of controls carried out, the european commission's audit service considered that certain high-risk procedures could not be audited. the unprofessional accounting management is also to be noted. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (tcc), whose mission is to provide any institution or body of the european union that requests it with the translation services necessary for its activities. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the translation of the budget of the european union bodies (cdt), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the commission's internal audit service considered that certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls identified. the directorate presented an action plan to address these deficiencies. the measures taken will be monitored. the court of auditors has noted that the formal delegations granted by the authorising officers do not always correspond to the authorisations for operations in the accounting system. in these circumstances, i refuse to grant discharge and i shall vote against the report of parliament.
in writing. ‒ the union now has 28 member states and 24 official languages. the work of the institutions could not function without the work of translation. in this context, i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013.
in writing. i voted against the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013. the commission notes that the 2013 budget was eur 17 925 075, representing a decrease of 6,72% compared to 2012. in a context of difficulty with the employment situation in the eu countries, and with young people in particular, this budget reduction is surprising. training and employment should be a priority for the eu in any case, the unemployment figures and the lack of attractiveness of apprenticeship training prove the ineffectiveness of european policy in this area.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013. the final budget of the european centre for the development of training for the financial year 2013 was eur 17 925 075, representing a decrease of 6.72% compared to 2012 the report stresses that the centre's work is of great relevance to the union's vocational education and training policy. the results in france on unemployment and apprenticeship, however, prove the opposite. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ the report claims that the centre's work is of great relevance to the eu's vocational education and training policy: one wonders what this assertion is based on... do we believe in self-fulfilling prophecies?
in writing. the final budget of cedefop for the financial year 2013 was eur 17.925.075, representing a decrease of 6,72% compared to 2012. of this total, the overall union contribution amounted to eur 17 13 3900. the rate of budget implementation was 98.95% and the rate of payment appropriations 92.39%. it is nevertheless questionable whether such a centre is really useful in view of the state of vocational training in europe and the differences in training between member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends that discharge be given in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013. the commission notes that the court of auditors' report did not reveal any errors and that the budget was reduced by 6,72% compared to 2012, which raises doubts about the usefulness of such a body in implementing an illusory union policy on vocational training. i know too well the causes of the poor results of vocational training in france and the continuing rise in youth unemployment to distrust the european union. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the results of the european centre for vocational development and training (cedefop) no longer have to prove its inability to stem unemployment by developing apprenticeships, the french situation alone shows the inefficiency of its action. in addition to this failure in its core mission, i could not vote in favour of a discharge on the implementation of cedefop's budget for the financial year 2013 considering a budget decrease of more than 6.72% compared to 2012, which makes this centre an empty shell whose incapacity will continue despite the political relevance of its mission. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training. i agree with the report's comments, which generally highlight the very good management of the centre.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013. the final budget of the european centre for the development of training for the financial year 2013 was eur 17 925 075, representing a decrease of 6.72% compared to 2012 the report stresses that the centre's work is of great relevance to the union's vocational education and training policy. the results in france on unemployment and apprenticeship, however, prove the opposite. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013. the final budget of the european centre for the development of training for the financial year 2013 was eur 17 925 075, representing a decrease of 6.72% compared to 2012 the report stresses that the centre's work is of great relevance to the union's vocational education and training policy. the results in france on unemployment and apprenticeship, however, prove the opposite. that is why i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training. this vote follows the presentation of the european court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 and validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this grant: the purpose of this centre is to support the union's policies in the field of vocational education and training, but while unemployment and apprenticeship rates in europe are constantly rising, the budget for this centre is constantly decreasing. this report calls into question the usefulness of this centre, and i am opposed to this discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) is only one component of the european budget for 2013, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. the report envisages granting discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training for the implementation of the budget. although the 2013 budget was down by 6.72% compared to 2012, one can still ask how relevant such an agency is when one considers the training deficit suffered by countries such as france, as well as the gap in the vocational training system. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop). discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. cedefop plays an important role in the union's vocational education and training policy. in particular, it launched its first pan-european study on skills (eu-skill). the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european centre for the development of vocational training has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the report underlines that the centre's work is of great relevance to the union's vocational education and training policy. we see the results...especially in france on unemployment and apprenticeship! once again, we see how the institutions are out of touch with reality and are happy to give each other satisfaction while the situation of a growing number of citizens in the member states is getting worse. i shall of course vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ at a time when unemployment is very high in europe and many european companies are affected by relocations, it is important to support vocational training. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget for the european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. i abstained on this report which calls for discharge to be given to the european police college in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. the move of bramshill college to its new budapest location saved eur 200 000 per year. these savings in the operating costs of the college are to be commended and the fact that the college can use the offices of its new headquarters free of charge is to be welcomed. the college should include in its next annual report an overview of the savings achieved in terms of operating costs.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ the report is not critical, even complacent, but i abstained because of the few praiseworthy savings that have been made.
in writing. the final budget of cepol for the financial year 2013 was eur 8 450 640, to be fully borne by the union budget. the rate of implementation of the budget was 94.89% and that of payment appropriations was 92.46%. however, i note that the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 was high for administrative expenditure at 30.46% due to events beyond the college's control, which in my view presents a risk. however, the move of the college to budapest saved money and i decided not to use the landfill.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends that the discharge be given to the european police college for the financial year 2013 in respect of the implementation of the budget. the move of bramshill college has resulted in savings of almost €200,000 per year. i welcome these first savings which will, i hope, call for others in the management of operating expenditure. i abstained on the discharge and on the vote on the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european police college (cepol) has made some considerable savings by moving its headquarters to budapest, which is why i could not vote against the discharge for the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. however, a lack of visibility and transparency in the management of this budget prevented me from voting in favour of discharge. so i refrained.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the european police college, on the basis of its good management during the financial year 2013. this was reflected in particular in a high rate of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013. the move of bramshill college to its new budapest location saved eur 200 000 per year. these savings in the operating costs of the college are to be commended and the fact that the college can use the offices of its new headquarters free of charge is to be welcomed. the college should include in its next annual report an overview of the savings achieved in terms of operating costs.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013. the move of bramshill college to its new budapest location saved eur 200 000 per year. these savings in the operating costs of the college are to be commended and the fact that the college can use the offices of its new headquarters free of charge is to be welcomed. the college should include in its next annual report an overview of the savings achieved in terms of operating costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european police college. this vote follows the presentation of the european court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 and validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european police college a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget for the european police college (cepol) is only one component of the european budget for 2013, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. the report envisages granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013. the college's move to budapest on a free basis has resulted in substantial savings. i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european police college (cepol). discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the text highlights cepol's efforts to share information on the impact of its activities on the lives of eu citizens. it recalled that cepol had committed itself to reducing its administrative expenditure. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european police college (cepol), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european police college (cepol) has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the report is far too complacent for me to approve it, but i note that some savings have nevertheless been made, thanks to the relocation of the college to a new location in budapest. that's why i'm abstaining.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european police college. i support and reiterate the importance of coordination of police forces at european level, particularly in training.
in writing. the final budget of the european medicines agency (hereinafter 'the agency') for the financial year 2013 was eur 251 560 000, representing an increase of 13,07% compared to 2012. the court of auditors noted that 83% of the agency's budget came from fees paid by companies in the sector, which represented a gradual increase. there is also no complete transparency on this aspect of the budget... so it would be imperative to improve this point in order to avoid any risk to the rights of consumers or the reputation of the agency. however, as the annual audit of the court of auditors did not reveal any significant problems with the deferral rate in 2013, i chose to abstain on this vote.
in writing. parliament proposes to approve the closure of the accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013 the agency is requested to improve the transparency of the outsourcing process through better documentation of the award processes, including evaluations carried out on the basis of the criteria set out in the guidelines. the same applies to the award of the many other low-value contracts. the court of auditors did not comment in its 2013 annual audit report on the authority's recruitment procedures.i abstained on this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to approve the closure of the accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013: the final budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 167 023 535, an increase of 5.15% compared to 2012. the agency is requested to improve the transparency of the outsourcing process through better documentation of the award processes, including evaluations carried out on the basis of the criteria set out in the guidelines. the same applies to the award of the many other low-value contracts. the court of auditors did not comment in its 2013 annual audit report on the recruitment procedures of the authority. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 167.023.535, representing an increase of 5,15% compared to 2012. the union contribution to this total amounted to eur 40 518 135. however, there was a general decrease in the overall amount of committed appropriations carried over, from eur 10,1 million (11%) in 2012 to eur 7,2 million (8%) in 2013. however, one may wonder whether, although the overall amount of carryovers has decreased, it remains high for operational expenditure (42% of the total). in addition, it is also considered necessary to increase the transparency and evaluations of the outsourcing process undertaken. so i decided to abstain on this discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends that the discharge be given to the european aviation safety agency in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. with a budget increase of 5.15% and no notification of comments in the annual report of the court of auditors, one can ask the question of the relevance of the information which has been communicated to us. the vote on discharge makes it possible to get to know agencies that nobody ever hears about, which raises a real question about the european union's ability to make its public action known and appreciated. i abstained on the vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report concerning the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency (easa) for the financial year 2013. if there are still problems of transparency with regard to the outsourcing process and the award criteria for other low value contracts, i take into account the fact that the court of auditors has not made any comments in its annual audit report on this subject. i do wonder, however, about the 5.15% increase in the easa budget compared to 2012.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to approve the closure of the accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013 the agency is requested to improve the transparency of the outsourcing process through better documentation of the award processes, including evaluations carried out on the basis of the criteria set out in the guidelines. the same applies to the award of the many other low-value contracts. the court of auditors did not comment in its 2013 annual audit report on the agency's recruitment procedures. i abstained from voting on this discharge because of the scant available solid information.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to approve the closure of the accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013 the agency is requested to improve the transparency of the outsourcing process through better documentation of the award processes, including evaluations carried out on the basis of the criteria set out in the guidelines. the same applies to the award of the many other low-value contracts. the court of auditors did not comment in its 2013 annual audit report on the authority's recruitment procedures.i abstained on this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european aviation safety agency. this vote follows the presentation of the european court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 and validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european aviation safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, although no major error was found, the agency is required to make efforts in terms of transparency in its outsourcing process. efforts must therefore be made before its discharge can be approved.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european aviation safety agency (easa) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. the report proposes to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013. however, the latter considers it necessary to increase the transparency and evaluations of the outsourcing process undertaken. in addition, the agency's budget was up by 5,15% in 2012 compared to 2013. for these reasons, i have decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european aviation safety agency (easa). discharge is granted, the budget of eur 167 million, up by 5,15% compared to 2012, having been implemented without significant error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european aviation safety agency (easa), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european aviation safety agency (easa) has demonstrated good financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ parliament proposes to approve the closure of the accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013. the agency is requested to improve the transparency of the outsourcing process through better documentation of the award processes, including evaluations carried out on the basis of the criteria set out in the guidelines. the same applies to the award of the many other low-value contracts. the court of auditors did not comment in its 2013 annual audit report on the recruitment procedures of the authority. in these circumstances, and considering the report to be uncritical, i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the aviation sector is a key economic area for the union. in fact, enhancing aviation safety will ensure the growth of this sector. in this context, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european aviation safety agency.
in writing. i voted against this report to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013. according to the court of auditors' report, budgetary needs were overestimated by 13% and committed appropriations carried over represented 24% of total committed appropriations, of which 13% did not correspond to any legal commitments. 18% of all payments were made after the deadlines laid down in the financial regulation; according to the office, while the number of late payments had decreased dramatically in mid-2013, late payments were again made in the last quarter of 2013 due to the significant increase in workload related to year-end activities. it would be desirable for the bureau to reduce the rate of late payments and inform the discharge authority of the effects of corrective actions.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ it is noted with concern that, according to the court of auditors' report, budgetary needs were overestimated by 13% and committed appropriations carried over correspond to 24% of total committed appropriations. that is also why i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the office's final budget for the financial year 2013, which was eur 10.5 million, fully borne by the union budget. however, it should be noted that the budget monitoring in the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 87,34% and that the payment appropriations execution rate was 87,18%. however, it is noted that budgetary requirements were overestimated by 13% and committed appropriations carried over represent 24% of total committed appropriations, 13% of which do not correspond to any legal commitments. i am also concerned that 18% of all payments were made after the deadlines laid down in the financial regulation. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends that discharge be given in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013. i note that in this sensitive area budgetary needs have been overestimated by 13% and that many of the appropriations carried over do not correspond to any legal commitments. in addition, 18% of payments were made after the deadline set in the financial regulation. for all these reasons i voted against the discharge and the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ a report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (easo) for the financial year 2013, which fails to take account of the many shortcomings of the said office and which therefore called for a negative vote on my part. the court of auditors has nevertheless clarified that the budgetary needs of easo were overestimated by 13% and that committed appropriations carried over amount to 24% of the total committed appropriations, of which 13% do not correspond to any legal commitment. dysfunctions in budget planning accompanied by a significant delay in payments, as no less than 18% of these payments were made after the deadlines laid down in the financial regulation. in view of these difficulties, i felt it was irresponsible to grant discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european asylum support office. despite the efforts still to be made, i note the significant progress made in budget planning compared to the 2012 financial year.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013. according to the court of auditors' report, budgetary needs were overestimated by 13% and committed appropriations carried over represented 24% of total committed appropriations, of which 13% did not correspond to any legal commitments. 18% of all payments were made after the deadlines laid down in the financial regulation; according to the office, while the number of late payments had decreased dramatically in mid-2013, late payments were again made in the last quarter of 2013 due to the significant increase in workload related to year-end activities. it would be desirable for the bureau to reduce the rate of late payments and inform the discharge authority of the effects of corrective actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013. according to the court of auditors' report, budgetary needs were overestimated by 13% and committed appropriations carried over represented 24% of total committed appropriations, of which 13% did not correspond to any legal commitments. 18% of all payments were made after the deadlines laid down in the financial regulation; according to the office, while the number of late payments had decreased dramatically in mid-2013, late payments were again made in the last quarter of 2013 due to the significant increase in workload related to year-end activities. it would be desirable for the bureau to reduce the rate of late payments and inform the discharge authority of the effects of corrective actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the european asylum support office, which validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european asylum support office (easo) discharge for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report calling for a discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office, as the committee on budgetary control has drawn up a rather large list of problems. the commission notes in particular that budgetary needs have been overestimated by 13% and that committed appropriations carried over represent 24% of total committed appropriations, of which 13% do not correspond to any legal commitments. it is a delicate thing to note that 'budgetary planning could still be improved considerably'. it also raised questions about the lack of transparency in the recruitment procedures of the asylum support office and the fact that 18% of all payments were made after the deadlines set out in the financial regulation.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this discharge because the budgetary needs of this office have been greatly overestimated and part of the committed appropriations do not seem to correspond to any legal commitment. it is therefore not possible to approve this grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget of the european asylum support office (easo) is only one component of the european 2013 budget which i opposed, so i vote against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. this report also envisages discharge to the european asylum support office (easo). it notes that the budget for 2013 was eur 10.5 million from the eu budget. the budgetary needs were also overestimated by 13% and committed appropriations carried over represent 24% of the total committed appropriations, 13% of which do not correspond to any legal commitments. it is also worrying that 18% of payments are made after the deadlines set out in the cpf. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european asylum support office (easo). discharge is granted, the budget of eur 10,5 million having been implemented without significant error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european asylum support office (easo), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european asylum support office (easo) has demonstrated good financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ it is noted with concern that, according to the court of auditors' report, budgetary needs were overestimated by 13% and committed appropriations carried over correspond to 24% of the total committed appropriations, of which 13% correspond to no legal commitments. i am concerned that 18% of all payments were made after the deadlines set out in the financial regulation; while the number of late payments had decreased dramatically in mid-2013, late payments were again made in the last quarter of 2013 due to a significant increase in the workload related to year-end activities. this issue should be addressed as a matter of urgency and the discharge authority should be informed of the effects of the corrective actions. i therefore oppose the discharge and vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ following the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and the alarming situation of illegal migration flows in the region, it is important to support the european bodies responsible for asylum issues. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european asylum support office.
in writing. i voted against the report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013. the authority should make full use of its powers in the field of consumer protection, which it does not do. on the other hand, the authority's mixed financing system is rigid, burdensome and may pose a threat to its independence. it is therefore invited to propose by 2017 a financing system based solely on the introduction of fees charged to market participants, or combining fees charged to market participants with a current allocation from the general budget of the union, from a specific budget line. finally, given the limited resources at its disposal, the agency should stick to the tasks assigned to it by the union's co-legislators.
in writing. the report calls for discharge but i have decided to vote against this text. we can blame the authority for not making full use of its powers in the field of consumer protection. on the other hand, the authority's mixed funding system is rigid, burdensome and may pose a threat to its independence; it is therefore invited to propose by 2017 a system for financing the authority based solely on the establishment of fees charged to market participants, or combining fees charged to market participants with a current allocation from the general budget of the union, from a specific budget line. secondly, the authority should, given the limited resources at its disposal, stick to the tasks assigned to it by the union co-legislators.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this complacency report when one could blame the eba for rigid and heavy mixed financing
in writing. ‒ this report indicates that the final budget of the authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 25 967 360, representing an increase of 25,16% compared to 2012 due to the authority's recent establishment. of this amount, eur 10 386 944 was a contribution from the eu budget. i also note that the level of carry-overs was 36%, which is relatively high, because - we are told - of projects related to public procurement for the provision of infrastructure and it services in 2014. i can also criticise two aspects of its operation. firstly, i would say that the authority should make full use of its powers in the field of consumer protection. second, the authority's mixed financing system is rigid, burdensome and can threaten its independence. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to reject the proposal for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013. in substance, this authority is incapable of fulfilling its task in terms of consumer protection. the eba's mixed financing system remains too rigid and burdensome, which risks jeopardizing its independence. this will include the eba adopting by 2017 a financing system based on the introduction of fees charged to market participants and/or a current allocation from the general budget of the eu from a specific budget line. in the meantime, this lack of visibility and the dispersion of the authority in its tasks are sufficient grounds to oppose the granting of discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european banking authority. within the next two years, the european commission should present to the european parliament a proposal for a new way of financing the authority. it is essential that the commission should be completely independent, given its task of proposing common regulations for the banking sector.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge but i have decided to vote against this text. we can blame the authority for not making full use of its powers in the field of consumer protection. on the other hand, the authority's mixed financing system is rigid, burdensome and may pose a threat to its independence. it is therefore invited to propose by 2017 a financing system based solely on the introduction of fees charged to market participants, or combining fees charged to market participants with a current allocation from the general budget of the union, from a specific budget line. secondly, the authority should, given the limited resources at its disposal, stick to the tasks assigned to it.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge but i have decided to vote against this text. we can blame the authority for not making full use of its powers in the field of consumer protection. on the other hand, the authority's mixed funding system is rigid, burdensome and may pose a threat to its independence; it is therefore invited to propose by 2017 a system for financing the authority based solely on the establishment of fees charged to market participants, or combining fees charged to market participants with a current allocation from the general budget of the union, from a specific budget line. secondly, the authority should, given the limited resources at its disposal, stick to the tasks assigned to it by the union co-legislators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the european banking authority, which validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european banking authority (eba) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this grant: as the court of auditors' report mentions, this authority does not make use of the powers it has to protect consumers, and uses its resources to intervene outside its mandate. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european banking authority (eba) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to grant discharge to the european banking authority in respect of the 2013 budget. its budget for the 2013 financial year was then almost €26 million, an increase of 25.16% compared to 2012, largely due to the recent creation of the eba. more than one third of this budget was borne by the eu budget. again, deferrals are at high levels (36%) with projects related to public procurement for the provision of it infrastructure and services in 2014 as the main reason. i also dispute the very existence of this authority, since this competence should be the responsibility of each member state. for these reasons, i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european banking authority (eba), whose mission is to contribute to the creation of high-quality common standards and practices in banking regulation and supervision. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report notes that all the authority's it systems have been repatriated internally, which gives the authority a capacity to control and monitor them. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european banking authority (eba), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european banking authority (eba) has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the authority should make full use of its powers in the field of consumer protection. on the other hand, the mixed financing system is rigid, burdensome and can threaten its independence. finally, given the limited resources at its disposal, the commission should stick to the tasks assigned to it by the european union's co-legislators. i therefore oppose the discharge and vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to vote against this text. the centre has a relatively low budget implementation rate of 92.96%, with a payment appropriations execution rate of 74.14%. the court of auditors noted weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget for operational meetings (travel and hotel costs). the court also found contradictions in certain procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. - i voted against this complacency report.
in writing. ‒ this report indicates that the centre's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 58.315 million, an increase of 0.2% compared to 2012. the overall union contribution to this amount was eur 56,727 million. the 2013 budget implementation rate is relatively low at around 92,96%, and the payment appropriations execution rate was 74,14%, with cancellations of appropriations in all titles of the centre's budget. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. finally, the court of auditors noted weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget for operational meetings (travel and hotel costs). the court also found contradictions in certain procurement procedures. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which is not critical of the european centre for disease prevention and control. it should be noted that the centre's rate of implementation of payment appropriations is only 74.14%. with the other weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget for operational meetings, the report seems to me to be lacking in recognition of these shortcomings, not to mention the problems of lack of transparency in the award of public contracts. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european centre for disease prevention and control. the latter plays a major health role, since it is responsible for monitoring potential epidemics. the discharge authority must therefore monitor closely its budgetary management. i therefore agree with the report's comments which call the centre to order on a number of points.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to vote against this text. the centre has a relatively low budget implementation rate of 92.96%, with a payment appropriations execution rate of 74.14%. the court of auditors noted weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget for operational meetings (travel and hotel costs). the court also found irregularities in certain public procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ in view of the anomalies identified by the court of auditors, i voted against the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors noted in particular discrepancies in the planning and implementation of the budget for operational meetings. these differences were mainly due to overestimation of participation rates, hotel and air transport costs. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the costs of the operation of the airport. the court of auditors also found contradictions in the award of a contract in 2013. these irregularities were liable to distort the tendering process, although it must be acknowledged that this contract was subsequently cancelled by the centre.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to vote against this text. the centre has a relatively low budget implementation rate of 92.96%, with a payment appropriations execution rate of 74.14%. the court of auditors noted weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget for operational meetings (travel and hotel costs). the court also found contradictions in certain procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the ecdc, which validates the use of resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013. i voted against because the court of auditors noted weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget for operational meetings (travel and hotel costs) and contradictions in certain procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ although the report calls for this discharge, the court of auditors calls for an increase in the centre's budget implementation and the implementation of the relatively low appropriations. the court mentions that the centre has weaknesses in the planning and budget execution of operational meetings and that there are contradictions in certain procurement procedures. these inconsistencies raise the suspicion of mismanagement or even fraud and i can therefore only oppose this grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. ‒ the centre has a relatively low budget implementation rate of 92.96%, with a payment appropriation execution rate of 74.14%. the court of auditors noted weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget for operational meetings (travel and hotel costs). the court also found contradictions in certain procurement procedures. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the discharge must be refused because of the reservations expressed by the court of auditors, which noted weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget for operational meetings (travel and hotel costs). the court also found contradictions in certain procurement procedures.
in writing. this report is intended to agree on the discharge for the 2013 budget to the centre for the financial year 2013. it amounted to €58.315 million, a slight increase of 0.2% compared to 2012. almost all of this budget comes from the european union. the court of auditors highlights weaknesses in the planning and budget execution of operational meetings (travel and hotel costs) and in certain procurement procedures. the rate of implementation of payment appropriations is particularly low (74%). all of this justifies my voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european centre for disease prevention and control. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report takes note of the centre's initiative to create a section dedicated to public procurement. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) has demonstrated good financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the centre has a relatively low budget implementation rate of 92.96%, with a payment appropriation execution rate of 74.14%. the court of auditors noted weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the budget for operational meetings (travel and hotel costs). the court also found contradictions in certain procurement procedures. in these circumstances, i am opposed to the discharge and i am voting against the report presented to parliament.
in writing. ‒ in view of the risk of rapid transmission of diseases and the emergence of new diseases or viruses, it is important to control these phenomena. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013. the agency's expenditure is financed partly by fees charged by industry and partly by a grant from the union. the court did not find any serious breaches in budgetary management. however, the court invites the agency to maintain its attention to the level of carry-overs in the titles relating to operational expenditure. as regards reach, the court notes with concern a high rate of non-compliant dossiers and notes that the agency does not stigmatise companies which do not comply with their obligations. the agency would instead help companies obtain authorisations to use substances of very high concern instead of encouraging the replacement of the most dangerous chemicals and innovation by substituting safer ones. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013. the agency's expenditure is financed partly by fees charged by industry and partly by a grant from the union. the court did not find any serious breaches in budgetary management. however, the court invites the agency to maintain its attention to the level of carry-overs in the titles relating to operational expenditure. as regards echa/reach, the court notes with concern a high rate of non-compliant dossiers and notes that the agency does not stigmatise companies which do not comply with their obligations. the agency would instead help companies obtain authorisations to use substances of very high concern instead of encouraging the replacement of the most dangerous chemicals and innovation by substituting safer ones.
in writing. ‒ this report indicates that the agency has benefited from eu grants of eur 7,632 million paid by the commission and pre-financing from the instrument for pre-accession assistance of eur 103,524, as well as other contributions and financing from the commission of eur 920,900. i note, however, a budget implementation rate of 98.64% and a payment appropriations execution rate of 86.18%. moreover, i note, however, that the committed appropriations carried over to 2014 remained at a high level of 46%. finally, with regard to the reach programme, the court notes with concern the high rate of non-compliant dossiers and the fact that the agency does not stigmatise companies which do not comply with their obligations. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. - a report which was too complacent towards the european chemicals agency and which could only lead to my voting against it. this is despite a high rate of non-compliant records and an agency that prefers to help companies acquire potentially dangerous chemicals rather than encourage them to innovate. the report calls for the discharge to be given to the european chemicals agency. we're on the verge of irresponsibility here.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge to the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013. in charge of implementing the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of the regulation on the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals, known as reach, the agency received a grant of eur 7.632 million, pre-accession funding of eur 103.524 and other contributions of eur 920.900 for the 2013 budget year. according to the european court of auditors, the rate of budget implementation is satisfactory at 98.64% in commitment appropriations and 86.18% in payment appropriations. it should be noted that the agency has made significant efforts to prevent and manage conflicts of interest and to improve the transparency of its decisions. in addition, as part of the implementation of the reach regulation, it has appointed a sme ambassador to represent the interests of companies within the agency. in view of all this, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013. the agency's expenditure is financed partly by fees charged by industry and partly by a grant from the union. the court did not find any serious breaches in budgetary management. however, the court invites the agency to maintain its attention to the level of carry-overs in the titles relating to operational expenditure. as regards reach, the court notes with concern a high rate of non-compliant dossiers and notes that the agency does not stigmatise companies that do not comply with their obligations. the agency would instead help companies obtain authorisations to use substances of very high concern instead of encouraging the replacement of the most dangerous chemicals and innovation by substituting safer ones. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013. the agency is responsible for the application of the reach regulation on the prevention of risks from chemical substances. however, the court of auditors notes with concern a high rate of non-compliant dossiers and notes that the agency does not stigmatise companies that do not comply with their obligations. the court also found that the agency did not seek to promote the substitution of the most dangerous chemicals by other safer products. the question therefore arises whether the way in which the agency is financed by the companies themselves does not undermine its efficiency or even its probity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european chemicals agency (echa) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013. the agency's expenditure is financed partly by fees charged by industry and partly by a grant from the union. the court did not find any serious breaches in budgetary management. however, the court invites the agency to maintain its attention to the level of carry-overs in the titles relating to operational expenditure. as regards reach, the court notes with concern a high rate of non-compliant dossiers and notes that the agency does not stigmatise companies which do not comply with their obligations. the agency would instead help companies obtain authorisations to use substances of very high concern instead of encouraging the replacement of the most dangerous chemicals and innovation by substituting safer ones. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013. i voted against because the court notes with concern a high rate of non-compliant dossiers and notes that the agency does not stigmatise companies which do not comply with their obligations. the agency seems to be helping companies to obtain permits to use hazardous products rather than promoting the replacement of these products with safer ones.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. the court of auditors itself seems to have doubts because it encourages the agency to keep its attention on carryovers in the titles relating to operational expenditure. in addition, one of the reasons for the existence of the agency is the monitoring and implementation of reach (regulation adopted to better protect human health and the environment against the risks related to chemical substances), and the court has noted a worrying number of non-compliant files and the agency's refusal to act when necessary. for all these reasons, i am opposed to granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget the european chemicals agency (echa) is only one component of the european 2013 budget which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. ‒ the agency's expenditure is financed partly by fees charged by industry and partly by a grant from the union. the court did not find any serious breaches in budgetary management. however, the court invites the agency to maintain its attention to the level of carry-overs in the titles relating to operational expenditure. as regards reach, the court notes with concern a high rate of non-compliant dossiers and notes that the agency does not stigmatise companies which do not comply with their obligations. the agency would instead help companies obtain authorisations to use substances of very high concern instead of encouraging the replacement of the most dangerous chemicals and innovation by substituting safer ones. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the discharge must be refused because of the court of auditors' reservations regarding reach, where it noted with concern a high rate of non-compliant dossiers and noted that the agency does not stigmatise companies that do not comply with their obligations. the agency would instead help companies to obtain authorisations and use substances of very high concern instead of promoting the replacement of the most dangerous chemicals by safer products and stimulating innovation.
in writing. this report proposes to grant discharge to the european chemicals agency for the 2013 budget. the agency has received substantial eu grants (eur 7.6 million from the commission, eur 103.524 from the instrument for pre-accession assistance, etc.). the management of this agency is to say the least objectionable as the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 is very high (46%). the court also notes the existence of numerous non-compliant dossiers under the reach programme. so i decided to discharge you.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 budget discharge for the european chemicals agency. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the agency is notable for being financed mainly by fees paid by industry for the registration of chemicals. it is also heavily invested in supporting smes to enable them to comply with regulatory requirements. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european chemicals agency (echa), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european chemicals agency (echa) has demonstrated good financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the agency's expenditure is financed partly by fees charged by industry and partly by a grant from the union. the court of auditors did not find any serious irregularities in budget management. however, it invites the agency to maintain its attention to the level of carry-overs in the operational expenditure titles. as regards reach (the regulation to improve the protection of human health and the environment against the risks arising from chemical substances), i am concerned that there is a high rate of non-compliant dossiers and that the agency does not stigmatise companies which do not comply with their obligations. the agency would even help companies obtain authorisations to use substances of very high concern instead of encouraging the replacement of the most dangerous chemicals and innovation by substituting safer ones. i therefore oppose the discharge and vote against the report presented to parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. i voted against this report calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 the court of auditors has emphasised that on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and considers that they should therefore be strengthened. the agency should further improve the level of its ex ante checks to ensure the eligibility of beneficiaries. existing controls provide only limited assurance as to the eligibility and accuracy of the costs declared by the beneficiaries. more efforts should also be made to ensure the accuracy of personnel costs. the calculation methods should be improved.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are too scarce and existing controls provide only limited assurance as to the eligibility and accuracy of costs declared by beneficiaries. i therefore voted against this complacency report which does not take account of these problems.
in writing. ‒ this report indicates that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 49.270.722, representing an increase of 18.16% compared to 2012. i note a budget implementation rate of 98.66%, and a payment appropriations implementation rate of 88.92%. according to the court of auditors, on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and should therefore be strengthened. more efforts will also be needed to ensure the accuracy of personnel costs and the methods of calculation. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which seeks to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors has pointed out that on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and that the agency's choices for its beneficiaries were questionable. thus, there is no accuracy in the costs declared by the beneficiaries or in the personnel costs. in these circumstances, i could not accept a discharge on the implementation of the eea budget.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge to the european environment agency for the financial year 2013. the agency, which is responsible for providing reliable and independent information on the state of the environment and for helping the union and its member states to take informed decisions to improve the environment and to integrate environmental and sustainable considerations into european policies, received a contribution of eur 34.886 million in 2013. according to the european court of auditors, the commission's budget implementation rate is satisfactory at 98.66% in commitment appropriations and 88.92% in payment appropriations. following an assessment of the agency's vulnerability to conflicts of interest, the agency took stock of the issue and adopted a policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in june 2014. in view of all this, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 the court of auditors has emphasised that on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and considers that they should therefore be strengthened. the agency should further improve the level of its ex ante checks to ensure the eligibility of beneficiaries. existing controls provide only limited assurance as to the eligibility and accuracy of the costs declared by the beneficiaries. more efforts should also be made to ensure the accuracy of personnel costs. the calculation methods should be improved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european environment agency (eea) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 the court of auditors has emphasised that on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and considers that they should therefore be strengthened. the agency should further improve the level of its ex ante checks to ensure the eligibility of beneficiaries. existing controls provide only limited assurance as to the eligibility and accuracy of the costs declared by the beneficiaries. more efforts should also be made to ensure the accuracy of personnel costs. the calculation methods should be improved.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 i voted against because the court of auditors has stressed that on-the-spot checks of beneficiaries' costs are rare and that the agency should improve the level of its checks to ensure the eligibility of beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has noted the serious lack of controls and guarantees offered by the agency: on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare, ex ante checks to ensure the eligibility and accuracy of declared costs are unreliable and the existing controls provide only limited assurance. the court was also obliged to ask the agency to make greater efforts to ensure that staff costs were accurate and to review the methods used to calculate them. for all these reasons i am voting against the discharge!
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget for the european environment agency (eea) is only one component of the european budget for 2013 which i opposed, so i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has stressed that on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and considers that they should therefore be strengthened. the agency should further improve the level of its ex ante checks to ensure the eligibility of beneficiaries. existing controls provide only limited assurance as to the eligibility and accuracy of the costs declared by the beneficiaries. more efforts should also be made to ensure the accuracy of personnel costs. the calculation methods should be improved. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the discharge must be refused because of the reservations expressed by the court of auditors, which pointed out that on-the-spot cost checks at beneficiaries are rare and therefore should be strengthened. the agency should further improve the level of its ex ante checks to ensure the eligibility of beneficiaries. existing controls provide only limited assurance as to the eligibility of such costs and the accuracy of the costs declared by the beneficiaries. more efforts should also be made to ensure that staff costs are accurate. the calculation methods should be improved.
in writing. this report proposes to grant discharge to the european environment agency for its 2013 budget. the latter amounted to over €49 million, an increase of 18.16% compared to 2012, which is particularly high. the court of auditors also criticised the weak efforts made in relation to staff costs and their calculation methods. for these reasons, i voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european environment agency. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report highlights that the agency presents the results of its work through multimedia materials available on its website. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european environment agency (eea), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european environment agency has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors has stressed that on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and considers that they should therefore be strengthened. the agency should further improve the level of its ex ante checks to ensure the eligibility of beneficiaries. existing controls provide only limited assurance as to the eligibility and accuracy of the costs declared by the beneficiaries. more efforts should also be made to ensure the accuracy of personnel costs. the calculation methods should be improved. in these circumstances, i am opposed to the discharge and i am voting against the report.
in writing. ‒ environmental protection is one of the main priorities of the european union and the new commission. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the report calls for discharge to be given to the european fisheries control agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. the court notes that a very large proportion of committed appropriations was carried over to 2014 and a very large number of it projects were under way in 2013. the court recommends that a system be put in place to ensure the independence of the advisory board, the executive director, the board of directors and other senior management in order to ensure greater transparency. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge when the court recommends that a system be put in place to ensure the independence of the advisory board, the executive director, the board of directors and other officers in order to ensure greater transparency.
in writing. ‒ this report indicates that the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 9 216 900, all of which came from the union budget. the rate of implementation of the budget is 98.64% and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 83.85%. i would again point out that for operational expenditure, the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 was significant. finally, i would like the agency to make it compulsory to publish the cvs of the agency's senior staff and the declarations of interests of the members of the advisory board in order to contribute to greater transparency. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european fisheries control agency plays a key role in monitoring the proper application of the rules of the common fisheries policy. the agency has achieved very good results in monitoring fishing activities since its creation and ensures the coordination and implementation of control activities in the member states. in its report, the court of auditors emphasises the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013. the agency has an excellent rate of implementation of c1 commitment appropriations and a good implementation of c1 payment appropriations, which is why i voted in favour of the discharge for the european fisheries control agency.
in writing. ‒ a report that does not seem to take account of the court of auditors' findings concerning the european fisheries control agency (efca). i therefore had to reject this text which calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the aecp budget for the financial year 2013. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council and parliament. the court of auditors also expressed doubts about the independence of the advisory board, the executive director, the administrative board and, in short, all the agency's executives. these suspicions and the lack of transparency are enough to refuse to grant this discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european fisheries control agency. the commission has indeed demonstrated very good management in the financial year 2013. it also plays an exemplary role in seeking synergies with other agencies. such an initiative is perfectly in line with the recommendations of the discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013. the court notes that a very large proportion of committed appropriations was carried over to 2014 and a very large number of it projects were under way in 2013. the court recommends that a system be put in place to ensure the independence of the advisory board, the executive director, the board of directors and other senior management in order to ensure greater transparency. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013. the commission notes that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i am also concerned that the implementation of the common fisheries policy, particularly in the light of the landing obligation, will require additional resources in the coming years. the creation of this obligation, which is complex to implement, will therefore entail additional costs for the taxpayer, for the sole purpose of imposing new constraints on fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013. the court notes that a very large proportion of committed appropriations was carried over to 2014 and a very large number of it projects were under way in 2013. the court recommends that a system be put in place to ensure the independence of the advisory board, the executive director, the board of directors and other senior management in order to ensure greater transparency. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european fisheries control agency. this vote follows the presentation of the european court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 and validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european fisheries control agency (efca) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013. i voted against because the court recommends that a system be put in place to ensure the independence of the advisory board, the executive director, the board of directors and other officers in order to ensure greater transparency.
in writing. - i voted against this grant. in addition to the fact that we are examining a 2013 file in 2015, the report highlights a serious lack of transparency within the agency: the court of auditors is questioning the independence of the advisory board, the executive director, the board of directors and other senior officials of the agency. this lack of transparency could be a sign of mismanagement or even fraud. in these circumstances it is not possible to authorise the grant of this discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget for the european fisheries control agency (efca) is only one component of the european 2013 budget which i opposed, so i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. ‒ the court notes that a very large proportion of committed appropriations was carried over to 2014 and that a very large number of it projects were under way in 2013. the court recommends that a system be put in place to ensure the independence of the advisory board, the executive director, the board of directors and other senior management in order to ensure greater transparency. i could not therefore endorse such a report and voted against it.
in writing. this report considers the discharge to be given to the european fisheries control agency for the 2013 budget. the latter amounted to €9.2 million from the eu budget. once again, the proportion of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 is high. the only criticism of the lack of transparency was the lack of publication of the declarations of interests of the members of the advisory council. for these reasons, i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european fisheries control agency. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report highlights the agency's efforts to achieve synergies with other agencies. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european fisheries control agency (efca), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european fisheries control agency (efca) has demonstrated good financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ i note a very large share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 and a very large number of it projects under way in 2013. the court of auditors recommends that a system be put in place to ensure the independence of the advisory board, the executive director, the board of directors and other senior management in order to ensure greater transparency. i therefore oppose the discharge and vote against parliament's report.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the increase in illegal fishing and the need to preserve endangered marine species, it is important to support the appropriate european bodies. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european fisheries control agency.
in writing. ‒ the european food safety authority is responsible for assessing the safety risks of foodstuffs intended for human and animal consumption. i voted against the discharge to be given to the authority for the financial year 2013. in its analysis, the court of auditors notes that further improvements in the monitoring of budget implementation are necessary in order to ensure that the level of carry-overs is in line with the budget implementation targets set for operational activities. it should be noted that despite previous recommendations by the court of auditors, the authority continues to have a very vague policy on conflicts of interest concerning experts employed by the agency. errors were also detected in certain expenditure related to the transport of agency staff. excessive expenditure of over eur 900 000 was recorded for travel to and from the airport, raising serious doubts about the management of operational expenditure.
in writing. i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given to the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013 the court of auditors' report notes that further improvements in the monitoring of budget implementation are necessary to ensure that the level of carry-overs is in line with the budget implementation targets set for operational activities. the court notes that the authority has a policy of 'double standards' in relation to conflicts of interest, with regard to experts from food safety organisations on the one hand and the rest of the staff on the other. there are clearly problems with the conflicts of interest of experts employed by the agency. the latter are asked to declare whether their activities outside the authority have been remunerated or not (this seems to be a very vague question). the court seems to have raised this issue in previous reports but the authority has not necessarily followed these recommendations. excessive expenditure on transport was noted. the authority has used a transport services group for travel to and from the airport for an amount of eur 918 668 in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge when problems were raised with regard to conflicts of interest of experts employed by the agency and excessive transport expenditure.
in writing. ‒ this report indicates that the authority's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 78,051 million, representing a decrease of 0,31% compared to 2012. the rate of implementation of the budget was 98.8% and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 90.8%. i also note that the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 was eur 6 431 431. finally, i note that the authority has a policy of 'double standards' in relation to conflicts of interest. there are clearly problems with the conflicts of interest of experts employed by the agency. i abstained on that discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for a discharge to be given to the european food safety authority (efsa) for the 2013 financial year. the court of auditors has raised suspicions about possible conflicts of interest within the agency, in particular with regard to experts from organisations responsible for food safety. the only question asked of them in relation to their activities outside the agency is whether they are paid; the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. in addition, excessive expenditure was highlighted in relation to transport: it appears that efsa used a group of transport services for travel to and from the airport for an amount of eur 918668 in 2013. this lack of transparency and these irregularities led me to reject the report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge to the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013. the agency, which is responsible for providing expertise and advice in the food sector, has a budget of €78.051 million for 2013. according to the european court of auditors, the commission's budget implementation rate is satisfactory at 98.80% in commitment appropriations and 90.80% in payment appropriations. in view of all this, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013 the court of auditors' report notes that further improvements in the monitoring of budget implementation are necessary to ensure that the level of carry-overs is in line with the budget implementation targets set for operational activities. the court notes that the authority has a policy of 'double standards' in relation to conflicts of interest, with regard to experts from food safety organisations on the one hand and the rest of the staff on the other. there are clearly problems with the conflicts of interest of experts employed by the agency. the latter are asked to declare whether their activities outside the authority have been remunerated or not (this seems to be a very vague question). the court seems to have raised this issue in previous reports but the authority has not necessarily followed these recommendations. excessive expenditure on transport was noted. the authority has used a transport services group for travel to and from the airport for an amount of eur 918 668 in 2013. i have voted against this report because i have seen that it works.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013 the court of auditors' report notes that further improvements in the monitoring of budget implementation are necessary to ensure that the level of carry-overs is in line with the budget implementation targets set for operational activities. the court notes that the authority has a policy of 'double standards' in relation to conflicts of interest, with regard to experts from food safety organisations on the one hand and the rest of the staff on the other. there are clearly problems with the conflicts of interest of experts employed by the agency. the latter are asked to declare whether their activities outside the authority have been remunerated or not (this seems to be a very vague question). the court seems to have raised this issue in previous reports but the authority has not necessarily followed these recommendations. excessive expenditure on transport was noted. the authority has used a transport services group for travel to and from the airport for an amount of eur 918 668 in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european food safety authority. this vote follows the presentation of the european court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 and validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european food safety authority (efsa) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013. i voted against because the court of auditors' report notes that further improvements in the monitoring of the implementation of the budget are needed to ensure that the level of carry-overs is in line with the budget implementation targets set for operational activities. in addition, there are clearly problems with the conflicts of interest of experts employed by the agency. finally, excessive expenditure on transport was noted. the authority has used a transport services group for travel to and from the airport for an amount of eur 918 668 in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge. the court of auditors considered that the authority seems to have serious problems of conflicts of interest among its experts. although the court has already pointed out this problem on several occasions, the authority does not seem to take it into account. it should also be noted that the court found that the transport costs were excessive for the authority.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget for the european food safety authority (efsa) is only one component of the european budget for 2013 which i opposed, so i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report notes that further improvements in the monitoring of budget implementation are needed to ensure that the level of carry-overs is in line with the budget implementation targets set for operational activities. the court notes that the authority has a policy of 'double standards' in relation to conflicts of interest, with regard to experts from food safety organisations on the one hand and the rest of the staff on the other. there are clearly problems with the conflicts of interest of experts employed by the agency. the latter are asked to declare whether their activities outside the authority have been remunerated or not (this seems to be a very vague question). the court seems to have raised this issue in previous reports but the authority has not necessarily followed these recommendations. i voted out on this report calling for discharge to be given to the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013
in writing. this report shows a budget for the european food safety agency for 2013 of €78 million, a decrease of 0.31% compared to 2012. while budget management does not seem to call for more comment (except perhaps for the €6.4 million of appropriations carried over in 2014), human resources management, especially those related to conflicts of interest, is more problematic, especially in the appointment of experts. for these reasons i abstained from voting on this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european food safety authority. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report acknowledges that monitoring of the level of budget implementation is progressing within the authority. it stressed that significant progress was needed in the area of prevention and management of conflicts of interest. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european food safety authority (efsa), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european food safety authority has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report notes that further improvements in the monitoring of budget implementation are needed to ensure that the level of carry-overs is in line with the budget implementation targets set for operational activities. the authority applies a double standard in the area of conflicts of interest, with regard to experts from food safety organisations on the one hand and other staff on the other. there are clearly problems with the conflicts of interest of experts employed by the agency. the latter are asked to declare whether their activities outside the authority have been remunerated or not (this seems to be a very vague question). the court seems to have raised this issue in previous reports but the authority has not necessarily followed these recommendations. the authority also notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the airport and the airline was signed on 29 june 2013 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. i am opposed to discharge under these conditions and i shall vote against the report presented to parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the report calls for discharge to be given to the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 the institute was established to promote equality between men and women by taking this concept into account in all union policies and the resulting national strategies. furthermore, the institute would aim to promote not only gender equality but also lgbt inclusion. the internal auditor was concerned that during his risk assessment, certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. the institute is called upon to cooperate more closely with the ep's femm committee, to which it could provide more information. for these reasons i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of this institute which under the guise of promoting gender equality but spreads "lgbt" propaganda.
in writing. ‒ the report indicates that the institute's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 10 024 535, an increase of 29,49% compared to 2012. the budget implementation rate was 98.01% and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 76.93%. this institute aims to promote not only gender equality but also lgbt inclusion. the internal auditor was concerned that during his risk assessment, certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which validates the granting of a discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality. indeed, under the pretext of equality the institute plays a proven role in promoting lgbt communalist claims, to the detriment of the principle of reality according to which equality is not uniformity. what is disturbing is that according to the report, the eige has taken on this role without actually explicitly stating it, which leads to a lack of transparency regarding the exercise of its activities. this lack of transparency is reflected at organisational level, as the internal auditor noted with concern the persistence of certain high-risk procedures which could not be verified in the audit due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. given these shadow areas, i cannot understand why the report advocated discharge and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 the institute was established to promote equality between men and women by taking this concept into account in all union policies and the resulting national strategies. furthermore, the institute seeks to promote not only gender equality but also "lgbt" claims. the internal auditor was concerned that during his risk assessment, certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. the institute is called upon to cooperate more closely with the femm committee of the european parliament, to which it could provide more information. for these reasons i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013. i note in particular that the internal auditor found that certain procedures could not be audited, due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. i also note with concern the agency's willingness to act in both the public and private spheres. however, any interference by a public entity with privacy carries with it a potential threat to individual freedoms. in this case, the obvious political motivations of this agency can lead to misunderstandings.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 the institute was established to promote equality between men and women by taking this concept into account in all union policies and the resulting national strategies. furthermore, the institute would aim to promote not only gender equality but also lgbt inclusion. the internal auditor was concerned that during his risk assessment, certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. the institute is called upon to cooperate more closely with the ep's femm committee, to which it could provide more information. for these reasons i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european institute for gender equality. this vote follows the presentation of the european court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 and validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european institute for gender equality a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality, as the added value of this body has not yet been demonstrated. the final budget of the institute for the financial year 2013 was eur 10 024 535, representing an increase of 29,49% compared to 2012. the internal auditor was concerned that during his risk assessment, certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. this is not acceptable.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 i voted against because the institute was created to promote not only gender equality but also lgbt people and gender theory. in addition, the internal auditor was concerned that during its risk assessment, certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to vote against this discharge. in addition to the inconsistent date of the report, it is clearly stated that concerns were raised during the risk assessment due to a lack of information. in these circumstances it is not possible to have a clear idea of the institute's performance and it does not seem possible to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget the european institute for gender equality (eige) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. ‒ the institute was set up to promote equality between men and women by taking this concept into account in all eu policies and the resulting national strategies. furthermore, the institute would aim to promote not only gender equality but also lgbt inclusion. the internal auditor was concerned that during his risk assessment, certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. the institute is called upon to cooperate more closely with the ep's femm committee, to which it could provide more information. for these reasons i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. this report seeks to grant discharge to the european institute for gender equality (eige) for the 2013 budget. the latter amounted to eur 10 million, an increase of 29,49% compared to 2012. in addition to the particularly scandalous increase in its budget, this european institute promotes not only gender equality but also lgbt people. the internal auditor also noted the difficulty and risk of certain procedures due to the lack of sufficient controls. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european institute for gender equality, which was set up to promote gender equality, to which i am very attached, in all union policies. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report states that the institute makes information on the impact of its activities on eu citizens available on its website and social media. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european institute for gender equality has demonstrated good financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the internal auditor was concerned that during his risk assessment, certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. i therefore refuse to grant discharge and vote against the report presented to parliament.
in writing. ‒ inequalities between men and women are still very high in the union. the situation in europe has changed considerably, but there is still more to be done. in this respect, i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the report calls for a discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013, and i have decided to abstain on this vote. the authority's blended funding is rigid, burdensome and may pose a threat to its independence. it is desirable to establish a system of financing of the authority based solely on the establishment of fees charged to market participants, or combining fees charged to market participants with a current allocation from the general budget of the union, from a specific budget line.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because of the perceived criticism in this report.
in writing. ‒ this report indicates that for the financial year 2013 it amounted to eur 18,767,470, up by 19,88% compared to 2012 - this increase is explained by the recent establishment of the authority. i regret, however, the high rate of carryovers, especially for operational expenditure (up to 85%). it would be more useful to propose, in order to guarantee the authority's independence, to create a system of financing of the authority based solely on the establishment of fees charged to market participants or combining fees charged to market participants with a current allocation from the general budget of the union. i abstained on that discharge.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain on this report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). there are no major shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the budget. however, i had to take into account the fact that the authority's blended funding is rigid, burdensome and can pose a threat to its independence. i therefore invite the commission to take this risk into account and to propose a system of financing the authority based solely on the introduction of fees charged to market players, or combining these fees with an allocation from the general eu budget, from a specific budget line.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013, and i have decided to abstain on this vote. the authority's blended funding is rigid, burdensome and may pose a threat to its independence. it is desirable to establish a system of financing of the authority based solely on the establishment of fees charged to market participants, or combining fees charged to market participants with a current allocation from the general budget of the union, from a specific budget line.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. - dominique martin abstained from voting. the court of auditors' report does not point to any major errors but nevertheless stresses that the mixed financing of this authority is rigid, burdensome and therefore potentially a threat to its independence. so it's more fair to abstain.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. this report on the 2013 budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority shows a budget of €18,767 million, an increase of €19,88% compared to 2012, which is due to the authority's recent establishment. the majority of the latter's budget comes from a contribution from the eu budget. it would be more appropriate to finance it by means of fees charged to market participants. the high rate of carryovers of appropriations to operational expenditure is also noteworthy. however, i abstained on this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report acknowledges that the authority has revised its conflict of interest management rules. it stresses that it has redesigned its website to improve the transparency and accessibility of the information provided. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the authority's mixed funding is rigid, burdensome and can threaten its independence. the discharge seems too complacent, but i can see that the report is really critical for once and i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the report calls for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, which is why i voted in favour. the court regrets that it has not obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations of the institute. the court, like the members, considers that the quality of ex ante audits and the information given to audit firms are inadequate. the results of the ex post verifications have confirmed that the ex ante verifications were still not fully effective. the court also asked the institute to improve its internal procurement procedures. the institute has until december to prove that it has improved its management of eu resources
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to this institute because there is no reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the institute's grant operations and because the ex-ante checks are not effective.
in writing. ‒ this report indicates that the institute's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 142.197.740 in commitment appropriations, an increase of 47,05% compared to 2012, including a total union contribution of eur 93.462.181, an increase of 36,05% compared to 2012. the budget implementation rate is 96.97% and the rate of implementation of payments in relation to payment appropriations was 96.86%. however, the budget implementation rate for staff expenditure was low at 74% and for administrative expenditure. the court regrets that it has not obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations of the institute. the quality of the audits and the information given to the audit firms are also inadequate. the results of the audits confirmed that the ex ante audits were still not fully effective. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for deferring the discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) budget. the report highlights the institute's own dysfunctions: the eit's use of invitation-only procurement procedures is questionable, as is the legality and regularity of its grant operations. the report draws the necessary conclusions that the information given to audit firms, in particular on ex ante audits, is insufficient. the report is therefore objective here and that is why it was sensible to vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology. it seems to me that the evidence provided in support of the institute's accounts is not sufficiently substantiated. the institute should remedy this situation by 1 september 2015.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, which is why i voted in favour. the court regrets that it has not obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations of the institute. the court, like the members, considers that the quality of ex ante audits and the information given to audit firms are inadequate. the results of the ex post verifications have confirmed that ex ante verifications were not always fully effective. the court also asked the institute to improve its internal procurement procedures. the institute has until december to prove that it has improved its management of eu resources.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013, which is why i voted in favour. the court regrets that it has not obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations of the institute. the court, like the members, considers that the quality of ex ante audits and the information given to audit firms are inadequate. the results of the ex post verifications have confirmed that the ex ante verifications were still not fully effective. the court also asked the institute to improve its internal procurement procedures. the institute has until december to prove that it has improved its management of eu resources
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone the 2013 discharge of the eit, so that the institute can provide further explanations to the court of auditors on a number of concerns related to the management of dedicated resources. this referral was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report postponing the discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology, which calls for the discharge to be postponed until the financial year 2013. in particular, there is a serious problem of verifying payments before and after the contracted projects. the use of invitation-only procurement procedures by the eit is also questionable. it should also be noted that the court of auditors regrets not having obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the institute's grant operations. the court considers that the quality of the ex ante audits and the information given to the audit firms are insufficient. it also asked the institute to improve its internal procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for postponing the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013 i voted for this postponement because the court of auditors regrets that it has not obtained sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the institute's grant operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which, unlike the others, calls for the discharge to be postponed. the european parliament expressed dissatisfaction with the audits carried out, and meps questioned the eit's use of invitation-only public procurement procedures. these doubts seem to me to be well founded, and i therefore supported the decision to postpone the discharge until december 2015.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the report proposes to postpone the discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) joint undertaking because of the lack of reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the institute's grant operations. however, this procedure has less impact on the commission because it is disconnected from the budgetary issues in court, so i am puzzled by its postponement. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ the court regrets that it did not obtain reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the institute's grant operations. the court, like the members, considers that the quality of ex ante audits and the information given to audit firms are inadequate. the results of the ex post verifications have confirmed that the ex ante verifications were still not fully effective. the court also asked the institute to improve its internal procurement procedures. the institute has until december to prove that it has improved its management of eu resources. the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013 to be postponed. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. this report proposes to grant discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the 2013 budget. this amounted to eur 142.2 million, an increase of almost 47% compared to 2012. the european union contributes €93 million to its budget, an increase of 36% compared to 2012. the budget implementation rate for administrative and personnel expenditure was surprisingly low. the court also expressed doubts as to the legality and regularity of the transactions and the quality of the information provided to the audit firms. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european institute of innovation and technology. the dump is adjourned. for the second year in a row, the court of auditors has not obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the institute's grant operations. the report acknowledges that the authority has revised its conflict of interest management rules. it stresses that it has redesigned its website to improve the transparency and accessibility of the information provided. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) has demonstrated good financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ parliament expressed dissatisfaction with the verification of payments before and after contracts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the court of auditors regrets that it has not obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations of the institute. the court, like the members, considers that the quality of ex ante audits and the information given to audit firms are inadequate. the results of the ex post verifications have confirmed that the ex ante verifications were still not fully effective. the court also asked the institute to improve its internal procurement procedures. the institute has until december to prove that it has improved its management of eu resources. i voted against the report.
in writing. the final budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 251 560 000, representing an increase of 13,07% compared to 2012. the court observed that 83% of the agency's budget came from fees paid by the companies in the sector, which represented a gradual increase. there is also no complete transparency on this aspect of the budget, so it is imperative that this point be improved in order to avoid any risk to the rights of consumers or the agency's reputation. i preferred to abstain on this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i do not think there is sufficient transparency on certain aspects of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 251,56 million, an increase of 13,07% compared to 2012, with the european union's share amounting to eur 40,937,951. the rate of implementation of the budget was 96.76% for commitments and 83.49% for payment appropriations. the court observed that 83% of the agency's budget came from fees paid by companies in the sector, but that there was no complete transparency on this aspect of the budget. i abstained on that discharge.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain on this report concerning the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013. it should be noted that the final budget for 2013 was increased by 13,07% compared to 2012 and that 83% of the ema's budget comes from the fees paid by the companies in the sector. however, the court of auditors' annual audit did not reveal any significant problems with the carry-over rate in 2013, which is why i did not formally oppose the discharge. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of certain medicinal products.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to grant discharge to the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013. the agency, which is responsible for assessing, coordinating and supervising the development of new medicines for human and veterinary use in the european union, received a contribution of eur 251.56 million in 2013. according to the european court of auditors, the rate of budget implementation is satisfactory at 96.76% in commitment appropriations and 83.49% in payment appropriations. since the annual audit of the court of auditors did not reveal any significant problems in the implementation of the budget, i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 251 560 000, an increase of 13.07% compared to 2012. the court observed that 83% of the agency's budget came from fees paid by the companies in the sector, which represented a gradual increase. there is also no complete transparency on this aspect of the budget, so it is imperative that this point be improved in order to avoid any risk to the rights of consumers or the agency's reputation. i preferred to abstain on this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013. i note in particular that the internal auditor found that certain procedures could not be audited, due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. i also note that 83% of the agency's budget comes from fees paid by companies in the sector, which exposes the agency to significant risks of conflicts of interest. these conflicts of interest are evidenced by the proposed budget report of the broad definition that this agency gives to "commercial confidential information". this broad definition at least indicates a desire to protect the interests of the companies concerned at the expense of the necessary circulation of information.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 251 560 000, an increase of 13.07% compared to 2012. the court observed that 83% of the agency's budget came from fees paid by the companies in the sector, which represented a gradual increase. there is also no complete transparency on this aspect of the budget, so it is imperative that this point be improved in order to avoid any risk to the rights of consumers or the agency's reputation. i preferred to abstain on this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the ema, which validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency (ema) in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. i abstained on that vote. even if the report does not point out any major errors, a lack of transparency on some aspects of the budget is still mentioned. i was in doubt, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget the european medicines agency (ema) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. the report on the european medicines agency mentions a budget for 2013 of €251.56 million, an increase of 13.07% compared to 2012, of which €40.938 million comes from the eu budget. while some aspects of the scheme are not transparent, it is welcome that more than 80% of its budget comes from fees paid by companies in the sector. for these reasons i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european medicines agency, which plays a key role in protecting and promoting public and animal health. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european medicines agency (ema), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european medicines agency has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 251 560 000, an increase of 13.07% compared to 2012. the court of auditors notes that 83% of the agency's budget comes from fees paid by companies in the sector, which represents a gradual increase. there is also no complete transparency on this aspect of the budget. it is therefore imperative that this point be improved in order to avoid any risk to consumer rights or the agency's reputation. in these circumstances, i prefer to abstain on the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge approving the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency and thus allowing the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the budgetary execution of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013. i have decided to vote against this text. in its report, the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the observatory's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, the court notes certain weaknesses and a lack of transparency in public procurement procedures. the emcdda should pay more attention to the principle of sound financial management, namely the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which it uses the appropriations at its disposal.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because of the emcdda's financial mismanagement.
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the observatory for the financial year 2013 was eur 16.308.171,83, representing a decrease of 0,05% compared to 2012. the overall union contribution to this total amounted to eur 15,55 million, representing a decrease of 0,01% compared to 2012. the budget implementation rate was 99.73%, and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 97.71%. however, the court notes certain weaknesses and a lack of transparency in public procurement procedures. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which seems to be a case of the court of auditors' double standards. if in other reports on dumping the court of auditors is tapping the toes of the poor pupils of budgetary austerity, here it seems complacent towards the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. despite the weaknesses identified, particularly in terms of sound financial management, the emcdda thus enjoys the confidence of the court of auditors, which does not doubt the 'reasonable assurances' given to it. a genuine complacency that merited only a vote of no.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. i also agree with the report's observations and remain vigilant in the monitoring of the observatory's procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the budgetary execution of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013. i have decided to vote against this text. in its report, the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the observatory's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, the court notes certain weaknesses and a lack of transparency in public procurement procedures. the emcdda should pay more attention to the principle of sound financial management, namely the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which it uses the appropriations at its disposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013. i would point out in particular that the court of auditors has noted anomalies in certain procurement procedures, which have undermined transparency and equal treatment of the various tenderers. in addition, the vacancy of a building, the 'cais do sodré relogio', has resulted in a financial loss for the observatory, owing to the rent which it has to pay itself.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the budgetary execution of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013. i have decided to vote against this text. in its report, the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the observatory's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, the court notes certain weaknesses and a lack of transparency in public procurement procedures. the emcdda should pay more attention to the principle of sound financial management, namely the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which it uses the appropriations at its disposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the budgetary execution of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013. i voted against because the court of auditors' report points to certain weaknesses and a lack of transparency in public procurement procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda). although the court of auditors considers this report to be reliable and regular, it also mentions certain weaknesses and a lack of transparency in public procurement procedures. in the absence of any further attention to the principle of sound financial management by the emcdda, i decided to oppose this grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the observatory's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, the court notes certain weaknesses and a lack of transparency in public procurement procedures. the emcdda should pay more attention to the principle of sound financial management, namely the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which it uses the appropriations at its disposal. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the discharge must be refused because of the reservations expressed by the court of auditors, which has noted certain weaknesses and a lack of transparency in public procurement procedures. the emcdda should pay more attention to the principle of sound financial management, namely the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which it uses the appropriations at its disposal.
in writing. this report proposes to grant discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for its 2013 budget. the latter amounted to eur 16.3 million, a decrease of 0.05% compared to 2012. the eu budget contributes €15.5 million, unchanged from 2012. while budgetary management is not subject to much criticism, the lack of transparency in the award of public contracts was the reason why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. however, the report suggests several areas for improvement, for example in the area of conflict of interest prevention. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ in its report, the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the observatory's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, the court notes certain weaknesses and a lack of transparency in public procurement procedures. the emcdda should pay more attention to the principle of sound financial management, namely the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which it uses the appropriations at its disposal. i am against the discharge and i am voting against the report to parliament.
in writing. ‒ the problem of drug addiction and drug dependence is a current social issue. it is important to have access to reliable information on the subject in order to better analyse and combat this problem in europe. in this context, i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction.
in writing. i voted against this text to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013. the court stressed that the agency should improve the reliability of accounting procedures and cost information for internally created intangible assets. the aim is to improve the transparency and readability of the various accounting headings. i cannot support such an operation and wish to denounce it.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge on the grounds that the agency should improve the reliability of accounting procedures and cost information for internally created intangible assets.
in writing. ‒ the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 57.819 864, representing an increase of 4.88% compared to 2012. the union contribution to this amount was eur 53,789,658. the rate of implementation of the budget was 98.07% and that of payment appropriations was 88.73%. however, the agency should improve the reliability of accounting procedures and cost information for internally created intangible assets. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report providing for the granting of a discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european maritime safety agency. how can we go about this when the accounting procedures of the agency have been found to be unreliable, as have the cost information for the intangible assets created internally? in these circumstances, it was unthinkable to vote for a discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013. the court stressed that the agency should improve the reliability of accounting procedures and cost information for internally created intangible assets. the aim is to improve the transparency and readability of the various accounting headings. i cannot support such an operation and wish to denounce it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013. the court stressed that the agency should improve the reliability of accounting procedures and cost information for internally created intangible assets. the aim is to improve the transparency and readability of the various accounting headings. i cannot support such an operation and wish to denounce it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european maritime safety agency. this vote follows the presentation of the european court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 and validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european maritime safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013 i voted against because the agency needs to improve the reliability of accounting procedures and cost information for internally created intangible assets.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors noted the unreliability of the agency's accounting procedures and the doubts that exist about the cost information for intangible assets created internally. this lack of reliability of the results is intolerable on the part of a european agency, and that is why dominique martin is opposed to the granting of this discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget for the european maritime safety agency (emsa) is only one component of the european budget for 2013 which i opposed, so i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. ‒ the court stressed that the agency should improve the reliability of accounting procedures and cost information for internally created intangible assets. the aim is to improve the transparency and readability of the various accounting headings. i cannot support such an operation and wish to denounce it. i voted no to this text to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the discharge should be refused because of the reservations expressed by the court of auditors which recommends that the agency improve the reliability of accounting procedures and cost information for internally created intangible assets.
in writing. the report envisages the granting of discharge to the european maritime safety agency for the 2013 budget. the latter amounted to eur 57.8 million, an increase of 4.88% compared to 2012, almost entirely financed by the union budget. this increase, which is much higher than inflation, together with the shortcomings in the reliability of accounting procedures, led me to vote against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european maritime safety agency. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report notes that the agency has introduced mandatory internal training for all staff to prevent conflicts of interest. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european maritime safety agency (emsa), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european maritime safety agency has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the agency should improve the reliability of accounting procedures and cost information for internally created intangible assets. i am against the discharge and i am voting against the report to parliament.
in writing. ‒ in order to underline the importance of ensuring maritime safety in european territorial waters, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for 2013.
in writing. i voted against this report to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013. this agency seems to be experiencing some organizational problems. some of the staff are in heraklion, the other half have been transferred to athens. this entails additional operating costs. the rent for the athens offices is paid by the greek authorities, who make payments very late, with a delay of several months, which constitutes a financial risk and a risk for the continuity of the agency's activity. the agency did not answer the question on cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness as regards the workspace. the report shows that the latter was more concerned with the internal organisation of the agency than with its activities.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which focuses more on the internal organisation of the agency than on its activities. however, enisa has not addressed the question of cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness in relation to the workspace since the staff split between heraklion and athens.
in writing. ‒ the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 9 670 185, an increase of 18,53% compared to 2012. the union contribution to this total was eur 9,030,000. the budget implementation rate was 94.41% and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 86.46%. i note, however, the considerable carryovers of appropriations for administrative expenditure (59% of the total). the agency seems to have organisational problems with some of the staff being transferred to heraklion and the other to athens. this entails additional operating costs. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report to give a discharge to the eu agency for network and information security (enisa) for the implementation of its 2013 budget. the agency is facing many organisational problems because of the geographical division of its staff, part of which is based in heraklion and the other has been transferred to athens. this disorganization leads to additional operating costs, especially since the greek authorities, which are supposed to pay the rent for the athens offices, make the payments very late. so we are left with a huge financial risk and a very questionable cost-effectiveness. it was therefore irresponsible to vote for discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013. this agency seems to be experiencing some organizational problems. some of the staff are in heraklion, the other half have been transferred to athens. this situation leads to additional operating costs. the rent for the athens offices is paid by the greek authorities, who make payments very late, with a delay of several months, which constitutes a financial risk and a risk for the continuity of the agency's activity. the agency did not answer the question on cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness as regards the workspace.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013. this agency seems to be experiencing some organizational problems. some of the staff are in heraklion, the other half have been transferred to athens. this entails additional operating costs. the rent for the athens offices is paid by the greek authorities, who make payments very late, with a delay of several months, which constitutes a financial risk and a risk for the continuity of the agency's activity. the agency did not answer the question on cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness as regards the workspace. the report shows that the latter was more concerned with the internal organisation of the agency than with its activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report giving discharge to the executive director of the european union agency for network and information security in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013 i voted against because this agency seems to have some organizational problems. some of the staff are in heraklion, the other half have been transferred to athens. this entails additional operating costs. the rent for the athens offices is also paid by the greek authorities, who make payments very late, with a delay of several months, which constitutes a financial risk for the continuity of the agency's activity.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights major problems in the internal organisation of the agency, which multiplies its operating costs by dividing its staff between two headquarters. the rent for their offices is subsidized by the local authorities who have been several months behind in their payments. these delays constitute a financial risk and a risk to the continuity of the agency. finally, enisa did not answer some of the questions in the report. dominique martin therefore voted against this grant which he considered unjustified.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. ‒ this agency seems to have organisational problems. some of the staff are in heraklion, the other half have been transferred to athens. this entails additional operating costs. the rent for the athens offices is paid by the greek authorities, who make payments very late, with a delay of several months, which constitutes a financial risk and a risk for the continuity of the agency's activity. the agency did not answer the question on cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness as regards the workspace. the report shows that the latter was more concerned with the internal organisation of the agency than with its activities. i voted out against this report to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to give a discharge to the european union agency for network and information security in respect of the 2013 budget. the total amount of the budget allocated to the programme was eur 9.67 million, an increase of 18.5% over the previous year. the eu contributes almost entirely to its budget. once again, the carry-overs of appropriations committed for administrative expenditure are particularly high. the geographical organisation of the agency also generates unjustified operating costs, since part of the staff is based in heraklion and the other in athens. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european union agency for network and information security. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report stresses that the agency would benefit from having all its staff on one site. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european union agency for network and information security (enisa), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european union agency for network and information security has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ this agency seems to have organisational problems. some of the staff are in heraklion, the other half have been transferred to athens. this entails additional operating costs. the rent for the athens offices is paid by the greek authorities, who make payments very late, with a delay of several months, which constitutes a financial risk and a risk for the continuity of the agency's activity. the agency did not answer the question on cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness as regards the workspace. the report shows that the latter was more concerned with the internal organisation of the agency than with its activities. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the eu agency for network and information security.
in writing. although no serious financial malfunction has been noted, it is worrisome to note that in 2013, contrary to the provisions of its founding regulation, the agency rehired four of its temporary agents whose contracts had expired that year after a period of eight years for a new period of eight years. the agency's violation of its own laws and rules is unacceptable and we urge it to respect its recruitment procedures, as does the court of auditors. on the other hand, since the agency has still not adopted a clear, comprehensive and objective strategy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, despite the special recommendations made for several years by the discharge authority and the commission, i have preferred to abstain on this discharge. it must be admitted, however, that the agency is trying to minimise the negative impact of its decision on the dual headquarters (lille and valenciennes).
in writing. i abstained on this report to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013. it is of concern that in 2013, contrary to the provisions of its founding regulation, the agency re-hired, for a further period of eight years, four of its temporary agents whose contracts had expired that year after a period of eight years. we are deeply disappointed that the agency has still not adopted a clear, comprehensive and objective strategy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, despite the special recommendations made for several years by the discharge authority and the commission. the fact that the agency's activities are carried out at two sites (lille and valenciennes) is to be deplored, as this exposes the agency to additional costs. however, it must be admitted that the commission is endeavouring to minimise the negative impact of this decision on the dual seat.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which ignores the many conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ the agency's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 25 858 799, representing an increase of 0,23% compared to 2012, and was fully borne by the union budget. the rate of implementation of the budget was 97.87% and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 88.12%. the court finds unacceptable the agency's violation of its own laws and rules and urges it to respect its recruitment procedures following the re-hiring of 4 of its temporary staff whose contracts had expired. finally, i also regret that the agency has two sites: lille and valenciennes. this leads to additional operating costs. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (era) for the financial year 2013. firstly, the afe contravened its own rules by rehiring four of its temporary agents for a further period of eight years, which the court of auditors itself considered unacceptable. it should also be noted that the tea has still not done anything to manage and prevent conflicts of interest, even though the discharge authority and the commission have been recommending it for several years. finally, the geographical dispersion of the agency entails unnecessary additional costs. in these circumstances, it was unthinkable to vote for discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european railway agency. while there is little to complain about in its budgetary management, i would note that its human resources management needs to be improved.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013. it is of concern that in 2013, contrary to the provisions of its founding regulation, the agency re-hired, for a further period of eight years, four of its temporary agents whose contracts had expired that year after a period of eight years. we are deeply disappointed that the agency has still not adopted a clear, comprehensive and objective strategy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, despite the special recommendations made for several years by the discharge authority and the commission. finally, it is regrettable that the agency's activities are carried out at two sites (lille and valenciennes) because this exposes the agency to additional costs. however, it must be admitted that it is trying to minimise the negative impact of this decision on the dual seat.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013. it is of concern that in 2013, contrary to the provisions of its founding regulation, the agency re-hired, for a further period of eight years, four of its temporary agents whose contracts had expired that year after a period of eight years. we are deeply disappointed that the agency has still not adopted a clear, comprehensive and objective strategy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, despite the special recommendations made for several years by the discharge authority and the commission. the fact that the agency's activities are carried out at two sites (lille and valenciennes) is to be deplored, as this exposes the agency to additional costs. however, it must be admitted that the commission is endeavouring to minimise the negative impact of this decision on the dual seat.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 tfa discharge, which validates the use of resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget for the european railway agency (era) is only one component of the european budget for 2013, which i opposed, so i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to give discharge to the european railway agency in respect of the 2013 budget. the latter amounted to €25.85 million in 2013, financed entirely from the eu budget. the court of auditors strongly criticises the agency's breach of its own rules and orders it to respect recruitment procedures. in addition to the high cost of running the agency, which is one of the consequences of the eu's policy of deregulation of the railway sector, based on the anglo-american model, i can only vote against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european railway agency. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report encourages the agency to improve its recruitment procedures, in particular for external experts. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the european railway agency (era), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european railway agency has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ it is worrying to note that in 2013, contrary to the provisions of its founding regulation, the agency rehired, for a new period of eight years, four of its temporary agents whose contracts had expired that year after a period of eight years. the court of auditors considers the agency's breach of its own laws and rules unacceptable and urges it to respect its recruitment procedures. in these circumstances i prefer to vote against the discharge and therefore against the report.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a safe, modern, innovative and integrated railway network is one of the union's priorities. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the report calls for discharge to be given to the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013, which i voted against. late payments account for 27% of all payments made for goods and services received, which translated into interest payments of eur 3 834. all payments are delayed by an average of 32 days. the authority's current funding system is not flexible and leads to unnecessary administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which says that it does not deal with late payments, unnecessary administrative procedures or vat unduly paid
in writing. ‒ the final budget of the authority for the financial year 2013 was eur 28 188 749, an increase of 39% compared to 2012. this increase is due to the new tasks entrusted to the authority. the budget implementation rate was 93.18% and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 72.54%. i note, however, that the level of committed appropriations carried over remained high for operational expenditure, reaching only 58%. late payments account for 27% of all payments made for goods and services received, which translated into interest payments of eur 3 834. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to reject this report which calls for the discharge to be given to the european securities and markets authority (esma) for the financial year 2013 because of the many shortcomings found in the budgetary management of the esma. indeed, numerous late payments (27% of all payments made for goods and services received) resulted in the payment of interest amounting to eur 3834. in addition, the average delay in payment was 32 days. the emff financing system also lacks flexibility, which leads to unnecessary administrative burdens. in these circumstances, i saw no reason to vote for discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european securities and markets authority. i also agree with the report's comments on late payment. i call on the authority to shorten its payment deadlines, in the interests of protecting the good repute of the union's budgetary management as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013. late payments account for 27% of all payments made for goods and services received, which translated into interest payments of eur 3 834. all payments are delayed by an average of 32 days. the authority's current funding system is not flexible and leads to unnecessary administrative burdens. i have voted against this report for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013, which i voted against. late payments account for 27% of all payments made for goods and services received, which translated into interest payments of eur 3 834. all payments are delayed by an average of 32 days. the authority's current funding system is not flexible and leads to unnecessary administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european securities and markets authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against this grant. the authority is late in paying and therefore pays interest that could have been avoided. in addition, the funding system of the authority is not sufficiently flexible, which leads to unnecessary administrative procedures and thus to a loss of resources.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget the european securities and markets authority (esma) is only one component of the european 2013 budget which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. the report envisages granting discharge to the european securities and markets authority for the 2013 budget. the latter amounted to approximately eur 28.2 million, an increase of 39% (corresponding to a recent change in its scope of competence). once again, carryovers are unusually high, especially in operational expenditure (up to 58%). the amount of late payments is also well above what is reasonable. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european securities and markets authority. discharge is granted, the budget of eur 28 million, up 39% due to the new tasks entrusted to the authority, having been executed without significant error. the authority must, however, make progress in reducing its payment delays. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the european securities and markets authority (esma), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european securities and markets authority has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ late payments account for 27% of all payments made for goods and services received, which translated into interest payments of eur 3 834. all payments are delayed by an average of 32 days it is also noted that the authority's current funding system is not flexible and involves unnecessary administrative burdens. i consider the situation in 2013 regarding late payment and unduly paid vat to be unacceptable. i do not want to grant discharge and therefore vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ in the current post-crisis environment, esma has a key role to play. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013. no significant errors were found by the court of auditors, but it should be noted that, despite the european objective of better matching training to labour market needs, the foundation's final budget for 2013 was lower than in 2012, which casts doubt on the value of the foundation's work. it should also be noted that at the end of 2013 the foundation held almost 40% of its budget in a single bank with a low credit rating, which is a risk. finally, it should be noted that the commission's internal audit service (ias) carried out in 2013 an audit of the design and proper application of the internal control system, which revealed a lack of reasonable assurance as regards the formal appointment of the selection committee and declarations of absence of conflicts of interest and confidentiality. this result may suggest a lack of transparency and guarantees in the functioning of the foundation.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which pretends to ignore the proven lack of transparency and guarantees in the functioning of the foundation.
in writing. ‒ the foundation's final budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 20.143.500, all of which came from the union budget. the budget implementation rate was 99.78% and the payment appropriations implementation rate was 95.72%. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any evidence that the bank has been able to comply with the conditions of the restructuring communication. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to reject this report which calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf) for the financial year 2013. it seems to me to be at least inconsistent that an agency which is supposed to be working for employment should cut its budget in a period of high unemployment. furthermore, doubts were raised by the commission's internal audit service regarding the formal appointment of the selection committee and the declarations of absence of conflicts of interest and confidentiality. in view of this lack of transparency, it therefore seemed more reasonable to me to reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013. no significant errors were found by the court of auditors, but it should be noted that, despite the european objective of better matching training to labour market needs, the foundation's final budget for 2013 was lower than in 2012, which casts doubt on the value of the foundation's work. it should also be noted that at the end of 2013 the foundation held almost 40% of its budget in a single bank with a low credit rating, which is a risk. finally, it should be noted that the commission's internal audit service (ias) carried out in 2013 an audit of the design and proper application of the internal control system, which revealed a lack of reasonable assurance as regards the formal appointment of the selection committee and declarations of absence of conflicts of interest and confidentiality. this result may suggest a lack of transparency and guarantees in the functioning of the foundation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013. no significant errors were found by the court of auditors, but it should be noted that, despite the european objective of better matching training to labour market needs, the foundation's final budget for 2013 was lower than in 2012, which casts doubt on the value of the foundation's work. it should also be noted that at the end of 2013 the foundation held almost 40% of its budget in a single bank with a low credit rating, which is a risk. finally, it should be noted that the commission's internal audit service (ias) carried out in 2013 an audit of the design and proper application of the internal control system, which revealed a lack of reasonable assurance as regards the formal appointment of the selection committee and declarations of absence of conflicts of interest and confidentiality. this result may suggest a lack of transparency and guarantees in the functioning of the foundation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the etf, which validates the use of resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for discharge to be given to the european training foundation for the financial year 2013. i voted against because despite the european objective of better matching training to labour market needs, the foundation's final budget for 2013 was lower than in 2012, which raises doubts about the value of the foundation's work. in addition, the commission's internal audit service (ias) carried out an audit in 2013 which revealed a lack of reasonable assurance regarding declarations of absence of conflicts of interest. this result may suggest a lack of transparency and guarantees in the functioning of the foundation.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against this discharge. besides the inconsistency in discussing a 2013 report in 2015 it should be noted that this foundation seems to be taking a lot of risks by placing a large part of its budget in low-rated banks. in addition, the report of the european commission's own internal audit service (ias) mentions the foundation's lack of transparency with regard to the formal appointment of the selection committee and declarations of confidentiality and absence of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget the european training foundation (etf) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. this report proposes to give a discharge to the european training foundation for the 2013 budget. the latter amounted to eur 20.143 million, all of which was financed from the union budget. the foundation's financial management is poor, with the equivalent of 40% of its budget deposited in a bank that is rated poorly by rating agencies. i therefore voted against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european training foundation. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the foundation is distinguished by its sound budgetary planning. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european training foundation (etf), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european training foundation has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ despite the european objective of better matching training to labour market needs, the foundation's final budget for 2013 was lower than in 2012, which casts doubt on the value of the foundation's work. it should also be noted that at the end of 2013 the foundation held almost 40% of its budget in a single bank with a low credit rating, which is a risk. finally, it should be noted that the commission's internal audit service (ias) carried out in 2013 an audit of the design and proper application of the internal control system, which revealed a lack of reasonable assurance as regards the formal appointment of the selection committee and declarations of absence of conflicts of interest and confidentiality. this result may suggest a lack of transparency and guarantees in the functioning of the foundation. in these circumstances, i refuse to grant discharge and therefore vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the report calls for discharge to be given in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013, and i have decided to abstain. the agency's headquarters are in tallinn (46 posts occupied) but its operational activities are carried out in strasbourg (79 posts occupied) and the site for the continuity of activity is in sankt johann im pongau (austria). if all staff were based on a single site, management efficiency would be increased and administrative expenditure reduced. the fact that there are three different sites is obviously a weakness in terms of the expected budgetary savings.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ the idea of a geographical merger does not seem to me compatible with the maintenance of the seat of the parliament in strasbourg, to which i am attached.
in writing. ‒ the text on the 2013 discharge for the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice proposes to include in the evaluation report to be drawn up by the commission the advantages and disadvantages of having three different sites, one in tallinn, estonia, one in strasbourg, france, and one in sankt johann im pongau, austria, with a view to a possible centralisation of its activities to allow for budgetary savings. while i am aware of the desire to achieve economies of scale and thus relieve european taxpayers of any unnecessary expenditure, i am concerned that this desire to centralise the site of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems within the area of freedom, security and justice is leading the european union to want to undertake similar thinking for the seat of the european parliament. i am particularly attached to the strasbourg seat and therefore i shall abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report concerning the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the agency's headquarters are in tallinn and it has 46 posts. the operational activities of the agency shall be based in strasbourg, where 79 posts are occupied; finally, the site for the continuation of the activity is located in sankt johann im pongau, austria. the court itself has found that if all staff were grouped in one place, administrative expenditure would be reduced. apart from this problem, i saw no reason to reject the discharge altogether, and that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for eu-lisa. like the rapporteur, i hope that the commission will be able to provide parliament with more precise information on the exploitation of large-scale information systems in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to abstain. the agency's headquarters are in tallinn (46 posts occupied) but its operational activities are carried out in strasbourg (79 posts occupied) and the site for the continuity of activity is in sankt-johann-im-pongau (austria). if all staff were located in one location, management efficiency would be increased and administrative expenditure reduced. the fact that there are three different sites is obviously a weakness in terms of the expected budgetary savings.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to abstain. the agency's headquarters are in tallinn (46 posts occupied) but its operational activities are carried out in strasbourg (79 posts occupied) and the site for the continuity of activity is in sankt johann im pongau (austria). if all staff were based on a single site, management efficiency would be increased and administrative expenditure reduced. the fact that there are three different sites is obviously a weakness in terms of the expected budgetary savings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the text on the 2013 discharge for the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice proposes to include in the evaluation report to be drawn up by the commission the advantages and disadvantages of having three different sites, one in tallinn, estonia, one in strasbourg, france, and one in sankt johann im pongau, austria, with a view to a possible centralisation of its activities to allow for budgetary savings. while i am aware of the desire to achieve economies of scale and thus relieve european taxpayers of any unnecessary expenditure, i am concerned that this desire to centralise the site of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems within the area of freedom, security and justice is leading the european union to want to undertake similar thinking for the seat of the european parliament. i am particularly attached to the strasbourg seat and therefore i shall abstain on this text.
in writing. - abstention from voting. the agency operates from three sites (tallinn, strasbourg, sankt). the court found that operating on a single site would be beneficial in terms of efficiency and would also lead to a reduction in costs. i therefore ask the commission, together with my colleagues, to include in the evaluation report the advantages and disadvantages of operating from three different sites, specifying what budgetary savings can be expected, what are the administrative procedures and costs involved if all activities are centralised on one site.
in writing. ‒ abstention on this vote. the court of auditors' report does not reveal any major problems, but it does point out that the agency has three places of business, which multiplies its administrative expenditure.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget the european training foundation (etf) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. the report calls for the discharge to be given to the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. it is planning to include in the evaluation report to be drawn up by the commission the advantages and disadvantages of having three different sites, one in tallinn, estonia, one in strasbourg, france, and one in sankt johann im pongau, austria, with a view to a possible centralisation of its activities to allow budgetary savings. while this ambition is laudable from a budgetary point of view, the desire to centralise the site of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems within the area of freedom, security and justice should not lead the european union to think similarly about the seat of the european parliament. i therefore decided to abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. this agency manages sis ii, the vis and eurodac. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report stresses that the agency would benefit from having all its staff on one site. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the text on the 2013 discharge for the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice proposes to include in the evaluation report to be drawn up by the commission the advantages and disadvantages of having three different sites, one in tallinn, estonia, one in strasbourg, france, and one in sankt johann im pongau, austria, with a view to a possible centralisation of its activities to allow for budgetary savings. while i am aware of the desire to achieve economies of scale and thus relieve european taxpayers of any unnecessary expenditure, i am concerned that this desire to centralise the site of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems within the area of freedom, security and justice is leading the european union to want to undertake similar thinking for the seat of the european parliament. i am particularly attached to the strasbourg seat and therefore i shall abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for implementation of the 2013 budget of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013. the commission has also received a number of letters from the member states, which have been sent to the council and the european parliament. the court invites the agency to adopt global measures for the management of situations where conflicts of interest arise, in particular by requiring the official concerned to renounce that interest, by preventing him from participating in a decision-making process relating to the conflict, by restricting the official concerned's access to specific information, by modifying the tasks assigned to him or by requiring him to resign.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on complacency, especially as the committed appropriation carried over to 2014 seems to me far too high.
in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013 points to worrying budgetary irregularities by the agency. i am very concerned that the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for both administrative and operational expenditure was quite high. the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for administrative expenditure amounts to 30% of the budget, i.e. eur 601426, and for operational expenditure, the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 amounts to 46% of the budget, i.e. eur 3693549. i am noting the mismanagement of the european budget and therefore of the money of the european taxpayer, and i can only oppose this report and therefore vote against it.
in writing. ‒ as a precautionary measure, i have decided to oppose this report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013. the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 seems to me too high, whether for administrative expenditure (30%) or operational expenditure (46%). there is also a real problem within the agency in terms of the management and risks of conflicts of interest, which is why the court of auditors asked it to adopt measures to ensure that officials affected by these conflicts of interest renounce these interests or that the agency prevents them from participating in a decision-making process relating to the conflicts concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013. the commission has also received a number of letters from the member states, which have been sent to the council and the european parliament. the court invites the agency to adopt global measures for the management of situations where conflicts of interest arise, in particular by requiring the official concerned to renounce that interest, by preventing him from participating in a decision-making process relating to the conflict, by restricting the official concerned's access to specific information, by modifying the tasks assigned to him or by requiring him to resign.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013. the commission has also received a number of letters from the member states, which have been sent to the council and the european parliament. the court invites the agency to adopt global measures for the management of situations where conflicts of interest arise, in particular by requiring the official concerned to renounce that interest, by preventing him from participating in a decision-making process relating to the conflict, by restricting the official concerned's access to specific information, by modifying the tasks assigned to him or by requiring him to resign.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013 points to worrying budgetary irregularities by the agency. i am very concerned that the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for both administrative and operational expenditure was quite high. the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for administrative expenditure amounts to 30% of the budget, i.e. eur 601426, and for operational expenditure, the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 amounts to 46% of the budget, i.e. eur 3693549. i am noting the mismanagement of the european budget and therefore of the money of the european taxpayer, and i can only oppose this report and therefore vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this discharge: the report mentions concerns about the commitment appropriations carried over from certain titles and the problems of conflicts of interest that seem to arise. in these circumstances i voted against the grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget for the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) is only one component of the european budget for 2013 which i opposed, so i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. the report proposes to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013. however, the rate of credit committed and carried forward in 2014 was excessively high (30% for administrative expenditure and 46% for operational expenditure). the court of auditors also makes recommendations to improve the conflict of interest policy, which seems to be lacking. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european agency for safety and health at work. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report highlights that significant improvements have been made in the implementation of the annual work programme and in the area of recruitment and salaries. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european agency for safety and health at work has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013 points to worrying budgetary irregularities by the agency. i am very concerned that the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for both administrative and operational expenditure was quite high. the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for administrative expenditure amounts to 30% of the budget, i.e. eur 601426, and for operational expenditure, the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 amounts to 46% of the budget, i.e. eur 3693549. i am noting the mismanagement of the european budget and therefore of the money of the european taxpayer, and i can only oppose this report and therefore vote against it.
in writing. ‒ in order to underline the importance of the protection of workers and occupational health, i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the european agency for safety and health at work.
in writing. i voted against this discharge mainly because all the salaries and some additional costs related to administrative services were financed directly from the commission's budget. if wage costs are reported, no information is provided on the cost of administrative services. there is concern that this situation obscures the degree of dependence of the agency on the commission, whereas euratom should have financial autonomy, as defined in its statute.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the eea because salaries are paid directly by the commission instead of the agency, and there is no communication on administrative service costs.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 contains some points of confusion that should be clarified and made more transparent. the committee also welcomed the fact that the commission had already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary impact of the new financial perspective was not undermined. however, it turns out that salaries and additional costs related to administrative services were financed through the european commission budget. this raises a serious problem of the agency's independence from the commission. furthermore, we have no information on the cost of administrative services. the euratom supply agency should, as provided for in its statutes, be able to enjoy genuine financial autonomy. for all these reasons, i am opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the principle of granting the director-general of the euratom supply agency (eaa) discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. in the light of the fundamental nature of its mission - to ensure that all users in the eu have regular and equitable access to nuclear ores and fuels - it is of concern that the salaries of the agency's staff, as well as certain additional costs related to administrative services, have been financed by the commission's budget. it should be noted that no information on the costs of administrative services has been provided, so it is impossible to know the extent of the agency's dependence on the commission. as provided for in its statute, the agency should be financially autonomous.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge mainly because all salaries and certain additional costs related to administrative services were financed directly from the commission's budget. if wage costs are reported, no information is provided on the cost of administrative services. there is concern that this situation conceals the degree of dependence of the agency on the commission, whereas euratom should have financial autonomy, as defined in its statute.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013. in addition to a rather low rate of implementation of payment appropriations (59.22%), it is regrettable that this agency does not have financial autonomy, as defined in its statute. this situation has led to functional anomalies in the payment of salaries and certain additional costs, which are financed directly from the commission's budget. this dependence of the agency on the commission is just as damaging as the dependence of other european agencies on the companies they are supposed to control.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this discharge mainly because all salaries and certain additional costs related to administrative services were financed directly from the commission's budget. if wage costs are reported, no information is provided on the cost of administrative services. there is concern that this situation obscures the degree of dependence of the agency on the commission, whereas euratom should have financial autonomy, as defined in its statute.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 contains some points of confusion that should be clarified and made more transparent. the committee also welcomed the fact that the commission had already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary impact of the new financial perspective was not undermined. however, it turns out that salaries and additional costs related to administrative services were financed through the european commission budget. this raises a serious problem of the agency's independence from the commission. furthermore, we have no information on the cost of administrative services. the euratom supply agency should, as provided for in its statutes, be able to enjoy genuine financial autonomy. for all these reasons, i am opposed to this text.
in writing. - i voted against it. this report calls for the director-general of the euratom supply agency to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. this agency must ensure equal access to nuclear minerals and fuels for european partners. i think it is unusual, as do my colleagues from the national front, that all salaries and certain costs of administrative services are financed directly from the commission's budget. there is an unacceptable lack of transparency. this raises the question of the financial independence of the agency, which must have autonomy in this area since this is provided for in its statute.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the agency is to ensure that all users in the european union have regular and fair access to nuclear ores and fuels. although the agency's statute requires it to have financial autonomy, it seems to be closely linked to direct funding from the european commission. the court of auditors' report also expresses concern at the fact that no information is provided on the cost of administrative services. i therefore voted against this grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the budget for the euratom supply agency (eaa) is only one component of the european budget for 2013, which i opposed, so i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. this report proposes to grant discharge to the euratom supply agency in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. the aim of the agency is to ensure that all member states have equitable access to nuclear resources (minerals and fuels). several factors lead me not to grant discharge: the costs of administrative services are not communicated, the staff and some administrative costs are directly financed by the eu budget, whereas the agency should have financial autonomy. in these circumstances, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the euratom supply agency for the 2013 budget. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report stresses that the agency should be granted financial autonomy, as provided for in its statute. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the euratom supply agency (eaa), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the euratom supply agency has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 contains some points of confusion that should be clarified and made more transparent. the committee also welcomed the fact that the commission had already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary impact of the new financial perspective was not undermined. however, it turns out that salaries and additional costs related to administrative services were financed through the european commission budget. this raises a serious problem of the agency's independence from the commission. furthermore, we have no information on the cost of administrative services. the euratom supply agency should, as provided for in its statutes, be able to enjoy genuine financial autonomy. for all these reasons, i am opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ at a time when europe is becoming increasingly energy dependent, there is a need to support european bodies active in this field. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for 2013.
in writing. i have decided to vote against this report to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013 although the court of auditors did not find any significant error, the european parliament noted with concern that budget monitoring measures in the financial year 2013 were not optimal and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations remained too low. the european parliament also noted with concern that the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for certain titles was very high, which could suggest poor management of the foundation's budget.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because the budget monitoring measures in the financial year 2013 were not optimal and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations remains too low. in addition, the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for certain titles was very high, which could suggest poor management of the foundation's budget.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013 calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. this one doesn't seem relevant to me. i share the european parliament's regret that the budget monitoring measures for the financial year 2013 were not optimal. i can only say that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations remains very low. in addition, the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 is particularly high for some titles. i am afraid that the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is mismanaging its budget. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013. in addition to the fact that budget monitoring measures in the 2013 financial year were not optimal, the rate of implementation of payment appropriations remains too low, as parliamentarians have noted. in addition, the proportion of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for certain titles is very high, and this is enough to call into question the sound budgetary management of the foundation.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013 although the court of auditors did not find any significant error, the european parliament noted with concern that budget monitoring measures in the financial year 2013 were not optimal and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations remained too low. the european parliament also noted that the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for certain titles was very high, which could suggest poor management of the foundation's budget.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013 although the court of auditors did not find any significant error, the european parliament noted with concern that budget monitoring measures in the financial year 2013 were not optimal and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations remained too low. the european parliament also noted with concern that the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for certain titles was very high, which could suggest poor management of the foundation's budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge for eurofund, which validates the use of resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions a discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013 calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. this one doesn't seem relevant to me. i share the european parliament's regret that the budget monitoring measures for the financial year 2013 were not optimal. i can only say that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations remains very low. in addition, the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 is particularly high for some titles. i am afraid that the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is mismanaging its budget. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013. this report calls for discharge to be given in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013. i voted against because the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for certain titles was very high, which could suggest mismanagement of the foundation's budget.
in writing. - i voted against it. the european parliament itself noted with concern that the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 for certain titles was very high, and the court of auditors mentions that budget monitoring measures and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations were not optimal. in these circumstances i object to this grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. this report proposes to grant discharge to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. one can be surprised at such meekness. although the court of auditors did not identify any major management errors, the european parliament was able to note that the budget monitoring measures during the financial year 2013 were not optimal and that the rate of implementation of appropriations remained insufficient, unlike the appropriations carried over for 2014 which are continuing to grow. this mismanagement led me to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013 calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. this one doesn't seem relevant to me. i share the european parliament's regret that the budget monitoring measures for the financial year 2013 were not optimal. i can only say that the rate of implementation of payment appropriations remains very low. in addition, the share of committed appropriations carried over to 2014 is particularly high for some titles. i am afraid that the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is mismanaging its budget. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions.
in writing. i voted against the report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2013. eurojust's mission is to strengthen the effectiveness of national authorities investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder crime. there are serious concerns after eurojust made 49 budget transfers in 2013 affecting 101 budget lines, demonstrating deep weaknesses in budget planning and implementation and mismanagement. it is necessary for eurojust to achieve its objective of reducing the number of budget lines and to inform the discharge authority of the progress made in this respect. the economy, efficiency and performance with which eurojust has used the funds at its disposal must become the agency's main concerns.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because we are entitled to demand better financial management and to deplore the weakness of budget planning and implementation.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 is the one that i am most sceptical about. eurojust's mission is to improve the efficiency of national authorities in charge of investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder crime. however, i note that 49 budget transfers have been made, covering no less than 101 budget lines. this clearly demonstrates eurojust's mismanagement, particularly in terms of budget planning and execution. eurojust should focus on reducing its number of budget lines and on adhering more closely to the principle of sound financial management with a view to achieving savings and improving eurojust's performance in the use of the appropriations allocated to it. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the discharge for the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2013 and therefore voted against this report. first of all, i think that the very principle of eurojust monitoring the national authorities responsible for investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder crime is open to question: interstate cooperation in this area is necessary and consistent, but the principle of a european authority monitoring the actions of the member states is one that i deplore. it is also worrying that eurojust made 49 budget transfers in 2013 affecting 101 budget lines: here there is clearly a problem in budget planning and execution for this agency which does not seem to know how to manage its budget properly. it therefore seemed inconceivable to me to grant discharge until eurojust had reduced the number of budget lines and informed the discharge authority of its progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2013. eurojust's mission is to strengthen the effectiveness of national authorities investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder crime. there are serious concerns after eurojust made 49 budget transfers in 2013 affecting 101 budget lines, demonstrating deep weaknesses in budget planning and implementation and mismanagement. it is necessary for eurojust to achieve its objective of reducing the number of budget lines and to inform the discharge authority of the progress made in this respect. the economy, efficiency and performance with which eurojust has used the funds at its disposal must become the agency's main concerns.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report calling for discharge to be given on the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2013. eurojust's mission is to strengthen the effectiveness of national authorities investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder crime. there are serious concerns after eurojust made 49 budget transfers in 2013 affecting 101 budget lines, demonstrating deep weaknesses in budget planning and implementation and mismanagement. it is necessary for eurojust to achieve its objective of reducing the number of budget lines and to inform the discharge authority of the progress made in this respect. the economy, efficiency and performance with which eurojust has used the funds at its disposal must become the agency's main concerns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge for eurojust, which validates the use of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the administrative director of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 is the one that i am most sceptical about. eurojust's mission is to improve the efficiency of national authorities in charge of investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder crime. however, i note that 49 budget transfers have been made, covering no less than 101 budget lines. this clearly demonstrates eurojust's mismanagement, particularly in terms of budget planning and execution. eurojust should focus on reducing its number of budget lines and on adhering more closely to the principle of sound financial management with a view to achieving savings and improving eurojust's performance in the use of the appropriations allocated to it. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. - i vote against it. eurojust's mission is to strengthen the effectiveness of national authorities for investigation and prosecution in the fight against crossborder crime. it is more than worrying that eurojust made 49 budgetary transfers in 2013 affecting 101 budget lines. this demonstrates a mismanagement of the system revealing deep weaknesses in budget planning and execution. it is essential that eurojust achieves its objective of reducing the number of budget lines and that the competent authority monitors the progress made.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against this grant. the eu's judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) aims to strengthen the effectiveness of national authorities investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder crime. but the court of auditors notes deep weaknesses in planning and implementation, and is concerned about the poor management of this unit.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the european union judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. the report envisages granting discharge to eurojust for the implementation of the 2013 budget. eurojust assists national authorities in the investigation and prosecution of crossborder crime. however, the agency's mismanagement is evident in that it made 49 budget transfers affecting 101 budget lines, demonstrating an inability to plan and execute a budget. i am voting against this text because of the budgetary shortcomings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for eurojust, which was set up to strengthen the fight against and cooperation against serious forms of organised crime, in particular cross-border crime. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report nevertheless regrets that eurojust has not taken any significant steps to ensure the prevention of conflicts of interest or to guarantee transparency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european union's judicial cooperation unit (eurojust), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. the european union judicial cooperation unit has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 arouses the greatest scepticism in my mind. eurojust's mission is to improve the efficiency of national authorities in charge of investigating and prosecuting serious crossborder crime. however, i note that 49 budget transfers have been made, covering no less than 101 budget lines. this clearly demonstrates eurojust's mismanagement, particularly in terms of budget planning and execution. eurojust should focus on reducing its number of budget lines and on adhering more closely to the principle of sound financial management with a view to achieving savings and improving eurojust's performance in the use of the appropriations allocated to it. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eu judicial cooperation unit for the financial year 2013.
in writing. i voted against the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013. in the light of the court's report, it is noted with concern that in 2013 the effectiveness of public procurement procedures was undermined by certain decisions which were not based on sufficiently precise selection criteria, realistic price offers and were not in line with the professional requirements in force.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013. the effectiveness of public procurement procedures has been undermined by certain decisions which were not based on sufficiently precise selection criteria or realistic price offers and which were not in line with the professional requirements in force. i have decided to vote against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because of the dubious procedure in the award of public contracts.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013 was the subject of a report by the european court of auditors showing that in 2013 the efficiency of public procurement procedures was far from optimal due to the lack of sufficiently precise selection criteria underlying the taking of certain decisions. moreover, these decisions were not based on realistic price offers and were not in accordance with the professional requirements in force. i am opposed to this text because of these deviations.
in writing. ‒ the report proposing discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2013 called for a negative vote on my part. the court of auditors' report has indeed revealed shortcomings in public procurement procedures. the reason for this is a lack of consistency and relevance in the selection criteria, with, moreover, unrealistic tariff offers not in line with the professional requirements in force.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to europol. i note that the latter took account of the recommendations made to it for the 2012 budget year.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013. the effectiveness of public procurement procedures has been undermined by certain decisions which were not based on sufficiently precise selection criteria or realistic price offers and which were not in line with the professional requirements in force. i have decided to vote against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013. the effectiveness of public procurement procedures has been undermined by certain decisions which were not based on sufficiently precise selection criteria or realistic price offers and which were not in line with the professional requirements in force. i have decided to vote against this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european police office (europol) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013 was the subject of a report by the european court of auditors showing that in 2013 the efficiency of public procurement procedures was far from optimal due to the lack of sufficiently precise selection criteria underlying the taking of certain decisions. moreover, these decisions were not based on realistic price offers and were not in accordance with the professional requirements in force. i am opposed to this text because of these deviations.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against this report. the court of auditors' report raises concerns about the effectiveness of certain public procurement procedures: they do not appear to comply with the professional requirements in force and are not based on precise selection criteria or realistic price offers. in these circumstances, the vote against was logical.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget for the european police office (europol) is only one component of the 2013 european budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. the report calls for the discharge to be given to the european police office for the implementation of the 2013 budget. however, the court of auditors has highlighted some questionable aspects of the effectiveness of public procurement. the latter did not respect the most basic principles of awarding public contracts, since the court pointed out the absence of selection criteria or realistic tariff offers. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for europol. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the report notes, however, that europol can still make progress in the area of public procurement. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european police office (europol), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the budget of this institutional body. europol has demonstrated its sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013 was the subject of a report by the european court of auditors showing that in 2013 the efficiency of public procurement procedures was far from optimal due to the lack of sufficiently precise selection criteria underlying the taking of certain decisions. moreover, these decisions were not based on realistic price offers and were not in accordance with the professional requirements in force. i am opposed to this text because of these deviations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the european police office.
in writing. in defence of a number of community lobbies, i voted against the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013 on grounds of principle. the effectiveness and performance with which this agency has used the funds at its disposal to fulfil its tasks remains unclear and this has only supported my decision.
in writing. the report calls for discharge, which is why i have decided to vote against. the european union agency for fundamental rights sets itself the objective of making fundamental rights a reality for all in the european union. the agency defends many community lobbies whose aim is to break down traditional family structures. moreover, the efficiency and performance with which the agency has used the appropriations at its disposal to fulfil the tasks assigned to it remains unclear.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted without hesitation against the discharge for yet another agency that defends community lobbies, including lgbt.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned by the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013. i believe that the defence of fundamental rights is essential in european countries and i am deeply attached to it, but i do not believe that the european union agency for fundamental rights is the best way to defend them. in practice, the latter is subject to various community lobbies, which is in sharp contrast to my conception of fundamental rights, according to which there is no need to distinguish between citizens on the basis of different real or supposed characteristics. in addition, the use of the fundamental rights agency's appropriations by the european union remains opaque and unclear. for all these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i refuse to grant discharge on the implementation of the budget to an agency that, living on taxpayer money, defends the communitarian interests of various lobbies, including the lgbt lobby. i therefore voted against this report, especially as the data on the effectiveness and performance of the fra remain vague, even though these are essential criteria of the budgetary principle of annuality.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the european union agency for fundamental rights for its good management in respect of the financial year 2013. i note that internal audits regularly result in recommendations which the agency takes care to implement.
in writing. ‒ the european union agency for fundamental rights sets itself the objective of making fundamental rights a reality for all in the european union. the agency defends many community co-operatives whose aim is to undermine traditional family structures. moreover, the efficiency and performance with which the agency has used the appropriations at its disposal to fulfil the tasks assigned to it remains unclear. that is why i voted against this report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge, which is why i have decided to vote against it. the european union agency for fundamental rights sets itself the objective of making fundamental rights a reality for all in the european union. the agency defends many community lobbies whose aim is to break down traditional family structures. moreover, the efficiency and performance with which the agency has used the appropriations at its disposal to fulfil the tasks assigned to it remains unclear.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned by the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013. i believe that the defence of fundamental rights is essential in european countries and i am deeply attached to it, but i do not believe that the european union agency for fundamental rights is the best way to defend them. in practice, the latter is subject to various community lobbies, which is in sharp contrast to my conception of fundamental rights, according to which there is no need to distinguish between citizens on the basis of different real or supposed characteristics. in addition, the use of the fundamental rights agency's appropriations by the european union remains opaque and unclear. for all these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the agency is to promote fundamental rights in the european union, but its main task is to defend the interests of a large number of eu lobbies. the court of auditors also stresses that the use of its funds remains unclear, as does its efficiency and performance. in these circumstances i voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the eu fundamental rights agency (fra) is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. this report calls for the discharge to be given to the eu fundamental rights agency in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. however, this agency, which prides itself on defending fundamental rights for all, is subject to many community lobbies. it is not efficient or transparent, since the funds used are unclear. in these circumstances, i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european union agency for fundamental rights. discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european union agency for fundamental rights has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. i am deeply concerned by the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013. i believe that the defence of fundamental rights is essential in european countries and i am deeply committed to it, but i do not believe that the european union agency for fundamental rights is the best way to defend them. in practice, the latter is subject to various community lobbies, which is in sharp contrast to my conception of fundamental rights, according to which there is no need to distinguish between citizens on the basis of different real or supposed characteristics. in addition, the use of the fundamental rights agency's appropriations by the european union remains opaque and unclear. for all these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the protection of human rights and the defence of fundamental rights is one of the pillars of the european union and part of the european identity. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the eu agency for fundamental rights.
in writing. i voted against the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013. it is regrettable that the agency has not adopted a clear, comprehensive and objective policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. on the other hand, it is worrying that eur 32 million, or 35% of the appropriations committed in 2013, have been carried over to 2014. this underlines the need for the agency to take swift action to better control the financing of its multiannual operational activities.
in writing. the report calls for discharge and i have decided to vote against it. the agency has not adopted a clear, comprehensive and objective policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it is worrying that eur 32 million, or 35% of the appropriations committed in 2013, has been carried over to 2014, even though according to the court's report, the multiannual nature of the agency's operations and the increased risk of unforeseen events pose a particular challenge to the planning and execution of the annual budget. however, budget monitoring needs to be improved in order to reduce the level of deferrals. the agency should take swift action to better control the financing of its multiannual operational activities.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. - i voted against this report out of sheer complacency.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not acceptable. the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union does not appear to have a coherent and clear policy for the prevention and management of potential conflicts of interest. i can only note that no less than 35% of the appropriations committed in 2013 were carried over to the following year. i am aware of the multiannual nature of the agency's operations and the difficulties encountered in carrying them out, which represent a certain difficulty in planning, but i nevertheless deplore the poor follow-up of the budget, which could be improved in particular by reducing the level of deferrals. for these reasons, i am opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ i refused to grant frontex discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 20130. in addition to its total failure to protect the eu's external borders - a failure that has been tragically confirmed by recent events - the agency has been unable to adopt a clear, comprehensive and objective policy on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest in budgetary terms. it should also be added that 35% of the appropriations committed in 2013 were carried over to 2014, which clearly represents the difficulty for frontex to carry out its budget planning and execution. in view of these poor results, both politically and budgetarily, i could not give frontex this discharge and that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the discharge to frontex. however, i can only be concerned about the many areas which still need to be improved in terms of budgetary and human resources management. i am nevertheless aware, as a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, of the continuing efforts required of the agency in the face of the exponential migratory pressure at the union's external borders. i am therefore in favour of supporting the agency accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the agency has not adopted a clear, comprehensive and objective policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it is worrying that eur 32 million, or 35% of the appropriations committed in 2013, has been carried over to 2014, even though according to the court's report, the multiannual nature of the agency's operations and the increased risk of unforeseen events pose a particular challenge to the planning and execution of the annual budget. however, budget monitoring needs to be improved in order to reduce the level of deferrals. the agency should take swift action to better control the financing of its multiannual operational activities. i have therefore decided to vote against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge and i have decided to vote against it. the agency has not adopted a clear, comprehensive and objective policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it is worrying that eur 32 million, or 35% of the appropriations committed in 2013, has been carried over to 2014, even though according to the court's report, the multiannual nature of the agency's operations and the increased risk of unforeseen events pose a particular challenge to the planning and execution of the annual budget. however, budget monitoring needs to be improved in order to reduce the level of deferrals. the agency should take swift action to better control the financing of its multiannual operational activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the union (frontex) in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the vote before us concerns the discharge to the frontex agency responsible for protecting the external borders of the european union. frontex is implicated in several ways in the tragic deaths of migrants attempting to reach the european continent by sea. on the one hand, his missions have been criticized for making the crossing more dangerous by pushing smugglers to less controlled but more dangerous routes. on the other hand, the lack of resources limits the possibilities for rescue operations and the identification of ships in difficulty. the vote will be on the discharge to be given to frontex for its budget for the previous year. a vote against this discharge would have been counterproductive at a time when additional funds must be released to enable frontex to carry out large-scale rescue operations off the italian coast. i therefore voted for this discharge, but i am still calling for a change in the mandate of these operations: they must make rescue a priority, instead of hunting down migrants, which puts them increasingly at the mercy of smugglers.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not acceptable. the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union does not appear to have a coherent and clear policy for the prevention and management of potential conflicts of interest. i can only note that no less than 35% of the appropriations committed in 2013 were carried over to the following year. i am aware of the multiannual nature of the agency's operations and the difficulties encountered in carrying them out, which represent a certain difficulty in planning, but i nevertheless deplore the poor follow-up of the budget, which could be improved in particular by reducing the level of deferrals. for these reasons, i am opposed to this text.
in writing. - i vote against it. there is no clearly defined policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it is worrying to see that 35% of the appropriations committed in 2013 (eur 32 million) were carried over to 2014. the news shows that there is an increased risk of unforeseen events which the agency should take into account in the planning and execution of the annual budget. the level of carry-overs should be reduced and the agency should take swift measures to better control the financing of its multiannual operational activities.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors is concerned that the agency has not established a clear, comprehensive and objective policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. the report also raises concerns about the far too high percentage of committed appropriations carried over to 2014, which seems to highlight the poor management of the agency's funds. dominique martin therefore voted against the grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. i am also opposed to any action by frontex. i therefore oppose the discharge for the frontex budget for 2013 and vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the discharge must be refused, both because of opposition to the very action of frontex, which is clearly insufficient to embody a genuine policy of controlling migration flows, and because of accounting reservations, particularly on the management of multiannual operations.
in writing. the report calls for the discharge to be given to the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. deploring the fact that the agency lacks a transparent policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and that 35% of its appropriations committed in 2013 were carried over to 2014, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states (frontex). discharge granted, the budget of eur 94 million having been implemented without significant error. the report calls, however, for a thorough analysis of the use of eu funds in joint land/air/sea operations. it also regretted that frontex had not developed a clear policy on the prevention of conflicts of interest. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. frontex has demonstrated good financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013 is not acceptable. the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union does not appear to have a coherent and clear policy for the prevention and management of potential conflicts of interest. i can only note that no less than 35% of the appropriations committed in 2013 were carried over to the following year. i am aware of the multiannual nature of the agency's operations and the difficulties encountered in carrying them out, which represent a certain difficulty in planning, but i nevertheless deplore the poor follow-up of the budget, which could be improved in particular by reducing the level of deferrals. for these reasons, i am opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the recent dramatic events in the central mediterranean, which have caused the death of several dozen migrants, the management of migration flows needs to be better coordinated and organised within the european union. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the frontex agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the report calls for discharge to be given to the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013 the court's report notes that the agency did not reply to the questionnaire on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest concerning the follow-up to the 2013 discharge. the agency has not yet made public the declaration of interest of its director, the management board and the officials. the agency's mismanagement has led to serious errors which have resulted in a very high rate of carryovers of appropriations, especially in administrative expenditure. the court also noted that certain eligibility criteria were not in line with the rules for the application of the financial regulation during the tender procedure. the court noted some minor doubts that had arisen during a recruitment procedure. the internal audit found that during its risk assessment, the auditor considered that certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the lack or insufficiency of controls identified. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge because of the problems related to the management of conflicts of interest concerning the follow-up of the 2012 discharge; certain eligibility criteria were not in accordance with the rules for the application of the financial regulation during the procurement procedure.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013 clearly cannot be voted on as it stands. first of all, it is scandalous that the european gnss agency did not reply to the questionnaire sent to it on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest concerning the monitoring of the 2013 landfill. in addition, the director of the gnss agency, its board of directors and its officials have not yet made public their declaration of interest. these elements are evidence of serious management errors, not to mention the very high level of carryovers of appropriations, particularly in relation to administrative expenditure. moreover, the european court of auditors noted that some eligibility criteria were not in line with the rules for the application of the financial regulation during the tender procedure. for these reasons, i am strongly opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which calls for the discharge to be given to the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors found shortcomings in the conflict of interest issues relating to the agency. the agency has thus still not made public the declaration of interest of its director, the management board and the officials. the report also calls into question the agency's mismanagement, which has led to very high rates of carryovers of appropriations, particularly for administrative expenditure. i would add that the court has pointed out irregularities in the eligibility criteria which were found not to be in accordance with the rules for the application of the financial regulation during the tendering procedure. finally, the court noted shortcomings in recruitment procedures. all these factors taken together, it seemed to me unwise to vote for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013. the court's report notes that the agency did not reply to the questionnaire on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest concerning the follow-up to the 2013 discharge. the agency has not yet made public the declaration of interest of its director, the management board and the officials. the agency's mismanagement has led to serious errors which have resulted in a very high rate of carryovers of appropriations, covering in particular administrative expenditure. the court also noted that certain eligibility criteria were not in line with the rules for the application of the financial regulation during the tender procedure. the court noted some doubts that had arisen during a recruitment procedure. the internal audit revealed that during the risk assessment, certain high-risk procedures could not be controlled under the audit plan due to the absence or insufficiency of controls. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013 the court's report notes that the agency did not reply to the questionnaire on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest concerning the follow-up to the 2013 discharge. the agency has not yet made public the declaration of interest of its director, the management board and the officials. the agency's mismanagement has led to serious errors which have resulted in a very high rate of carryovers of appropriations, especially in administrative expenditure. the court also noted that certain eligibility criteria were not in line with the rules for the application of the financial regulation during the tender procedure. the court noted some minor doubts that had arisen during a recruitment procedure. the internal audit found that during its risk assessment, the auditor considered that certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the lack or insufficiency of controls identified. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the gsa, which validates the use of resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct the shortcomings identified by the european court of auditors in previous years. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european global navigation satellite systems agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013 clearly cannot be voted on as it stands. first of all, it is scandalous that the european gnss agency did not reply to the questionnaire sent to it on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest concerning the monitoring of the 2013 landfill. in addition, the director of the gnss agency, its board of directors and its officials have not yet made public their declaration of interest. these elements are evidence of serious management errors, not to mention the very high level of carryovers of appropriations, particularly in relation to administrative expenditure. moreover, the european court of auditors noted that some eligibility criteria were not in line with the rules for the application of the financial regulation during the tender procedure. for these reasons, i am strongly opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013. i voted against because the court's report notes that the agency did not respond to the questionnaire on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in relation to the monitoring of the 2013 discharge. the agency has not yet made public the declaration of interest of its director, the management board and the officials. in addition, the agency's mismanagement has led to serious errors which have resulted in a very high rate of carryovers of appropriations, especially in administrative expenditure.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted strongly against this discharge. the report does state that the agency did not reply to the questionnaire on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest in monitoring, did not make public the declaration of interest of its director, board of directors and officials, that it mismanaged its accounts causing serious errors, that some of its eligibility rules were not in line with the rules for the application of the financial regulation and, finally, that some of its procedures could not be audited because they had been little or no checked. in these circumstances it is impossible to vote otherwise than against.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the gnss agency budget is only one component of the european 2013 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013. the court's report notes that the agency did not reply to the questionnaire on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest concerning the follow-up to the 2013 discharge. the agency has not yet made public the declaration of interest of its director, the management board and the officials. the agency's mismanagement has led to serious errors which have resulted in a very high rate of carryovers of appropriations, especially in administrative expenditure. the court also noted that certain eligibility criteria were not in line with the rules for the application of the financial regulation during the tender procedure. the court noted some minor doubts that had arisen during a recruitment procedure. the internal audit found that during its risk assessment, the auditor considered that certain procedures with a high inherent risk could not be audited under the audit plan due to the lack or insufficiency of controls identified. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. this report calls for the discharge to be given to the european gnss agency in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. first of all, it is surprising that the agency refused to answer the questionnaire sent to it by the court of auditors on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. the absence of a declaration of interests by its director, board of directors and officials and the existence of doubts about the recruitment procedure are suggestive. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european gnss agency (european satellite navigation systems galileo egnos). discharge is granted as the budget has been implemented without significant error. however, the report strongly regrets that the agency did not reply to the questionnaire on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. it called on the agency to develop a policy on this matter as a matter of urgency. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the budget of the european gnss agency (gsa), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget. the european gnss agency (gsa) has demonstrated good financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013 clearly cannot be voted on as it stands. first of all, it is scandalous that the european gnss agency did not reply to the questionnaire sent to it on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest concerning the monitoring of the 2013 landfill. in addition, the director of the gnss agency, its board of directors and its officials have not yet made public their declaration of interest. these elements are evidence of serious management errors, not to mention the very high level of carryovers of appropriations, particularly in relation to administrative expenditure. moreover, the european court of auditors noted that some eligibility criteria were not in line with the rules for the application of the financial regulation during the tender procedure. for these reasons, i am strongly opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ satellite location and navigation play a key role in the global and european economy and transport systems. it is important to support the actions of the european gnss agency. with this in mind, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of this agency.
in writing. the report calls for the postponement of the decision to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i have decided to vote in favour of this report and this postponement. the joint undertaking was established to implement a 'research programme' for the development of technologies in different fields of application in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and to enable the emergence of new markets. according to the court of auditors, the initial budget for artemis for 2013 included commitment appropriations of eur 68,9 million, which was reduced to eur 32,6 million by an amending budget adopted at the end of the year. as a result, the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was only 69% while the rate of implementation of operational commitment appropriations reached 99.4% the monitoring process is therefore too complex to lead to the financial closure of projects. the joint undertaking should be able to provide the necessary technical support to the joint undertaking in order to ensure the continuity of the activities of the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes to postpone the discharge because artemis has not complied with the recommendations issued by the discharge authority.
in writing. the artemis joint undertaking was established to implement a 'research programme' for the development of technologies in different fields of application in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and to enable the emergence of new markets. the court of auditors' report highlights the difficulties in monitoring the management of this undertaking, which is too complex to lead to the financial closure of the projects. several budgetary changes have caused a major problem in the rate of implementation of payment appropriations (which reached 69%) even though the rate of implementation of operational commitment appropriations reached 99.4%. the report also expresses concern that the recommendations issued by the discharge authority in 2014 have not been followed up. thus, no comprehensive policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest has been put in place. i can only share the concern expressed by the court of auditors and that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report which rejects the decision to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the company, which was set up to develop a 'research programme' for the development of technologies in different fields of application, failed to close its projects financially. artemis, which was supposed to strengthen the union's competitiveness and enable new markets to emerge, found itself, above all, only executing 69% of its payment appropriations, even though the execution rate of operational commitment appropriations reached 99.4%: a veritable waste machine. the discharge authority had, however, issued recommendations in 2014, in particular on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, which were not followed by the joint undertaking. the members of parliament, of whom i am one, therefore considered it inappropriate to vote on this discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of the postponement of the discharge for the artemis joint undertaking. the management of the joint undertaking and the deficiencies identified in the information provided do not allow the discharge authority to authorise the closure of the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the postponement of the decision to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i have decided to vote in favour of this report and this postponement. the joint undertaking was established to implement a 'research programme' for the development of technologies in different fields of application in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and to enable the emergence of new markets. according to the court of auditors, the initial budget for artemis for 2013 included commitment appropriations of eur 68,9 million, which was reduced to eur 32,6 million by an amending budget adopted at the end of the year. as a result, the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was only 69% while the rate of implementation of operational commitment appropriations reached 99.4% the monitoring process is therefore too complex to lead to the financial closure of projects. the joint undertaking should be able to provide the necessary technical support to the joint undertaking in order to ensure the continuity of the activities of the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the postponement of the decision to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i have decided to vote in favour of this report and this postponement. the joint undertaking was established to implement a 'research programme' for the development of technologies in different fields of application in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and to enable the emergence of new markets. according to the court of auditors, the initial budget for artemis for 2013 included commitment appropriations of eur 68,9 million, which was reduced to eur 32,6 million by an amending budget adopted at the end of the year. as a result, the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was only 69% while the rate of implementation of operational commitment appropriations reached 99.4% the monitoring process is therefore too complex to lead to the financial closure of projects. the joint undertaking should be able to provide the necessary technical support to the joint undertaking in order to ensure the continuity of the activities of the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report, i voted in favour of postponing the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking because of insufficient controls on money transfers. i believe that this joint undertaking needs to provide additional evidence to prove that the 2013 eu funds have been well spent, and i therefore welcome this postponement decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking (on-board computer systems) for the financial year 2013, as the ex-post audits did not provide sufficient assurance.
in writing. - i voted yes. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. following this report, an amending budget was adopted at the end of the year, bringing the amount up to date and bringing it down to eur 32.6 million. this decision allowed the rate of implementation of payment appropriations to fall to 69% while at the same time the rate of implementation of operational commitment appropriations reached 99.4%. the complexity of the monitoring process is therefore far too complicated to achieve financial closure of projects. the parliament also noted that the artemis joint undertaking had not complied with the obligations imposed by the discharge authority in 2014. the commission also found that the exporting producer did not provide any evidence that the exporting producer had not provided sufficient evidence to substantiate its claim.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which suggests postponing the discharge. the artemis joint undertaking aims to implement a research programme for the development of technologies in different fields of application in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and to enable the emergence of new markets. the report stresses that the budget was initially overestimated and that too few payment appropriations were implemented. in addition, the company has not adopted a comprehensive policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, which represents a risk. it is therefore logical to be in favour of this postponement.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. the commission notes that the joint undertaking has not provided any evidence that the implementation of the new rules would be affected by the implementation of the new rules. however, this procedure has less impact on the commission because it is disconnected from the budgetary issues in court, so i am puzzled by its postponement. i am voting against this report.
in writing. the report envisages not to grant the discharge to the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the latter was set up to implement and strengthen the european union's competitiveness in technological development. however, the court of auditors points to very lax management, which led to an amending budget for 2013 reducing commitment appropriations to €32.6 billion instead of the planned €68.9 billion! the difference between the rate of implementation of payment appropriations and the rate of implementation of operational commitment appropriations is also abnormally high. taking into account the court of auditors' remarks and the concerns of the report, i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the joint undertaking for the implementation of a joint technology initiative on artemis embedded computing systems. the discharge decision was postponed because the court of auditors delivered a reserved opinion, complaining that the joint undertaking lacked sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the artemis joint undertaking, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget. the artemis joint undertaking has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the artemis joint undertaking was established to implement a 'research programme' for the development of technologies in different fields of application in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and to enable the emergence of new markets. the court of auditors' report highlights the difficulties in monitoring the management of this undertaking, which is too complex to lead to the financial closure of the projects. several budgetary changes have caused a major problem in the rate of implementation of payment appropriations (which reached 69%) even though the rate of implementation of operational commitment appropriations reached 99.4%. the report also expresses concern that the recommendations issued by the discharge authority in 2014 have not been followed up. thus, no comprehensive policy for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest has been put in place. i can only share the concern expressed by the court of auditors and that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013.
in writing. the report calls for the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to abstain. the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the european union so that they can be brought into operation as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ despite a budget that is constantly increasing, i have chosen to abstain for reasons of aviation safety.
in writing. this report shall give the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the eu so that they can be brought into operation as soon as possible. commitment appropriations were 90.6% of the total, while the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 87.7%. i note with concern, however, that although it has increased compared with the previous year (75%), the lower level of payment appropriations indicates that the implementation of the budget remains slow. i therefore abstained on this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain on this report which provides for the discharge to be given to the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. while i am in favour of procedures for aviation safety and note the increase in the budget for this undertaking, i believe that the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies should be able to take place at national level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the clearance of the clean sky joint undertaking, as it has shown good overall management during the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge to be given to the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to abstain. the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the european union so that they can be brought into operation as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be granted to the clean sky joint undertaking. this vote, based on the examination of the annual accounts and the annual report of the court of auditors, validates the use made of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the clean sky joint undertaking is to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies. the court of auditors' report does not point to any significant error, but we are against this systematic granting of discharge, which is why i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for this budget.
in writing. this report proposes to grant the clean sky joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. the aim of this joint venture, set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, is to improve the validation of eu-specific air transport technologies so that they can be operational and exploitable quickly. the commission is contributing €713 million to the project. the court of auditors found no objection to the reliability of the accounts. however, these show a relatively large gap between the commitment appropriations and the rate of implementation of payment appropriations, which means that the budget is being implemented slowly. for these reasons, i decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which gives the clean sky joint undertaking budgetary discharge for 2013. the objective of clean sky, which was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, is to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the european union so that they can be brought into operation as soon as possible. the founding members of the joint undertaking shall be the union, represented by the commission, and the industrial partners as responsible for the 'integrated technology demonstrators'. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) have been very involved in the programme, with around 40% of the budget for calls for proposals allocated to them. the company has good execution rates of commitment and payment appropriations of around 90% and the transactions underlying the annual accounts are legal and regular in all material respects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget. the clean sky joint undertaking has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the report indicates an increasing budget and is quite comprehensive. however, there are still many areas of uncertainty and i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the clean sky project is now a leading european project in the aeronautics and environmental sectors. the aim of this european public-private partnership is to develop a 'clean, innovative and competitive air system'. in view of the economic and technological importance of the aviation sector in europe, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the clean sky initiative.
in writing. the report calls for the postponement of its decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. notes that the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership joint technology initiative (ecsel), which started operations in june 2014 for a period of 10 years; the company was not able to determine whether the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the national funding authorities for the audit of project cost claims, provides sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions; we believe that this opinion with reservations calls into question the will of the joint undertaking to be effective and efficient. i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the postponement of discharge, in the absence of assurance as to the legality and regularity of the operations.
in writing. the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership joint technology initiative (ecsel), which started operations in june 2014 for a period of 10 years. the report calls for the postponement of its decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the company was not able to determine whether the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the national funding authorities for the audit of project cost claims, provides sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i share the concerns expressed in the report and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as the report recommends postponing the discharge. eniac was merged with the artemis joint undertaking to create the ecsel joint technology initiative. despite the audits, the company is not able to ensure the regularity and legality of the cost declarations for the projects. there is therefore no assurance that this joint venture will be truly effective and efficient.
in writing. i voted in favour of the postponement of the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking. the management of the joint undertaking, in which the member states play a role, does not allow the discharge authority to authorise the closure of the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a postponement of its decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the joint undertakings artemis and eniac were merged to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership joint technology initiative (ecsel), which started operations in june 2014 for a period of 10 years. the company was not able to determine whether the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the national funding authorities for the audit of project cost claims, provides sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions; we believe that this opinion with reservations calls into question the will of the joint undertaking to be effective and efficient. i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a postponement of its decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. notes that the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership joint technology initiative (ecsel), which started operations in june 2014 for a period of 10 years; the company was not able to determine whether the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the national funding authorities for the audit of project cost claims, provides sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions; we believe that this opinion with reservations calls into question the will of the joint undertaking to be effective and efficient. i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report, i voted in favour of postponing the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking because of insufficient controls on money transfers. i believe that this joint undertaking needs to provide additional evidence to prove that the 2013 eu funds have been well spent, and i therefore welcome this postponement decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac (nanotechnology) joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as the ex-post audits did not provide sufficient assurance.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the 2013 budget of the joint undertaking, but it should be noted that it merged with the artemis joint undertaking in june 2014 to create the ecsel joint technology initiative (electronic components and systems for european leadership). eniac has not yet defined its audit strategy which would provide assurance as to the legality and regularity of its operations. these hesitations cast doubt on the will of the joint undertaking to be effective and efficient. dominique martin also voted to postpone this decision.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. here the report proposes to postpone the discharge to the eniac joint undertaking due to the opinion with reservations of the court of auditors on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts of the joint undertaking. however, this procedure has less impact on the commission because it is disconnected from the budgetary issues in court, so i am puzzled by its postponement. i am voting against this report.
in writing. the report envisages not to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the eniac and artemis joint ventures were merged to form ecsel. as the audit was unable to provide sufficient assurance of the legality and regularity of the transactions, i decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text postponing the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. this company was established in 2007 for a period of ten years to define and implement a research programme for the development of core competencies for nanoelectronics in different application areas. like the company artémis with which it merged to form the ecsel joint initiative, eniac did not provide sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts, leading to a reserved opinion of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking, a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget of this public-private partnership. the eniac joint undertaking has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the artemis and eniac joint undertakings were merged to create the electronic components and systems for european leadership joint technology initiative (ecsel), which started operations in june 2014 for a period of 10 years. the report calls for the postponement of its decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the company was not able to determine whether the ex post audit strategy, which relies heavily on the national funding authorities for the audit of project cost claims, provides sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i share the concerns expressed in the report and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for 2013.
in writing. i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors regrets that the joint undertaking did not report on the projects already completed and the social, economic or environmental benefits they have brought. we cannot therefore assess the viability of the projects carried out by the joint undertaking, nor can we judge the appropriateness of the use of european citizens' money. the court regrets that the management of conflicts of interest has been seriously lacking, as the implementation of specific measures has been delayed. the activity report examined by the court does not contain any document on the contribution of all the other members of the joint undertaking, apart from the commission. so we do not know who, how or to what extent is involved in financing this joint venture. if it is a joint project, transparency should be ensured to ensure that each of the actors contributes equally. finally, only 56.7% of payment appropriations were committed because three financing projects were postponed.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge given the persistent problems in the management of conflicts of interest, and especially the lack of evidence on the added value of the projects.
in writing. the joint undertaking did not report on projects already completed. i cannot assess the viability of his plans or the correct use of public money. in addition, the management of conflicts of interest was seriously lacking, as the implementation of specific measures was delayed. the activity report examined by the court does not contain any document on the contribution of all the other members of the joint undertaking, apart from the commission. it is not known who, how or to what extent is involved in financing this venture. if it is a joint project, transparency should be ensured to ensure equal input from all actors. finally, only 56.7% of payment appropriations were committed because three financing projects were postponed. the report presented here gives no indication of what will happen to these funds: it is quite possible that they will be lost, which proves once again that this joint venture is a danaid barrel that the citizens of the eu states must constantly fill. in these circumstances, i can only oppose this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for discharge on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. no report on the projects already completed has been submitted by the company, which contributes to the lack of visibility of its activities in terms of social, environmental or even economic benefits. in addition, as the court of auditors has pointed out, there are serious shortcomings in the management of conflicts of interest and a serious lack of transparency as regards the financing of this undertaking: apart from the commission, we have no information about the other potential actors in this supposed joint venture. finally, only 56.7% of payment appropriations were committed, due in particular to the postponement of three financing projects, and no information is available on the destination of these funds.
in writing. i voted in favour of the landfill being awarded to the joint undertaking fuel cells and hydrogen . this public-private partnership was indeed well managed in fy2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the joint undertaking fuel cells and hydrogen for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors regrets that the joint undertaking did not report on the projects already completed and the social, economic or environmental benefits they have brought. thus, we cannot assess the viability of the projects carried out by the joint undertaking and we cannot judge the appropriateness of the use of the money of the citizens of the member states. the court regrets that the management of conflicts of interest has been seriously lacking as the implementation of specific measures has been delayed. the activity report examined by the court does not contain any document on the contribution of all the other members of the joint undertaking, apart from the commission. so we do not know who, how or to what extent is involved in financing this joint venture. if it is a joint project, transparency should be ensured to ensure that each of the actors contributes equally. finally, only 56.7% of payment appropriations were committed because three financing projects were postponed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the joint undertaking fuel cells and hydrogen for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors regrets that the joint undertaking did not report on the projects already completed and the social, economic or environmental benefits they have brought. we cannot therefore assess the viability of the projects carried out by the joint undertaking, nor can we judge the appropriateness of the use of european citizens' money. the court regrets that the management of conflicts of interest has been seriously lacking, as the implementation of specific measures has been delayed. the activity report examined by the court does not contain any document on the contribution of all the other members of the joint undertaking, apart from the commission. so we do not know who, how or to what extent is involved in financing this joint venture. if it is a joint project, transparency should be ensured to ensure that each of the actors contributes equally. finally, only 56.7% of payment appropriations were committed because three financing projects were postponed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the award of the landfill to the joint undertaking fuel cells and hydrogen . this vote, based on the examination of the annual accounts and the annual report of the court of auditors, validates the use made of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the execution of the joint undertaking fuel cells and hydrogen for the financial year 2013. i voted against because the court of auditors regrets that the joint undertaking has not reported on the projects already completed and the social, economic or environmental benefits they have brought. i cannot therefore assess the viability of the projects carried out by the joint undertaking, nor can i judge the appropriateness of the use of european citizens' money. the court also regrets that the management of conflicts of interest has been seriously flawed. finally, only 56.7% of payment appropriations were committed because three financing projects had been postponed. the report presented here gives no indication of what will happen to these funds: it is quite possible that they will be lost, which proves once again that this joint venture is a barrel of money that european citizens must constantly fill.
in writing. - i formally opposed this grant. this joint undertaking is not able to report on the projects it has completed: this prevents us from assessing the viability of these projects and their social, economic or environmental impact, and we therefore do not know how european citizens' money is used. in addition, the court of auditors states that it has not received any information on the contribution of the members of the joint undertaking, so it is impossible for us to know who is involved in the financing or to what extent. this total lack of transparency justifies my opposition to this grant.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the budget of the fuel cell and hydrogen joint undertaking is only one component of the european budget 2013 which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge on this budget.
in writing. the report envisages granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. however, the impossibility of assessing the viability of the projects of this joint undertaking, given that the court of auditors notes that it has not submitted a report on them, the presence of potential conflicts of interest and their poor management, and the low rate of commitment of payment appropriations do not justify discharge. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the company focuses on developing commercial applications and facilitating new industrial efforts for the rapid deployment of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013. the rate of implementation of commitment appropriations and payment appropriations was 98.9% and 56.7%, respectively. the decrease in payment appropriations compared with the previous year was due to the postponement of three projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget. the joint undertaking has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the joint undertaking did not report on projects already completed. i cannot assess the viability of his plans or the correct use of public money. in addition, the management of conflicts of interest was seriously lacking, as the implementation of specific measures was delayed. the activity report examined by the court does not contain any document on the contribution of all the other members of the joint undertaking, apart from the commission. it is not known who, how or to what extent is involved in financing this venture. if it is a joint project, transparency should be ensured to ensure equal input from all actors. finally, only 56.7% of payment appropriations were committed because three financing projects were postponed. the report presented here gives no indication of what will happen to these funds: it is quite possible that they will be lost, which proves once again that this joint venture is a danaid barrel that the citizens of the eu states must constantly fill. in these circumstances, i can only oppose this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking.
in writing. the report calls for the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013 the joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of significantly improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and with the longer-term objective of the pharmaceutical industry producing more effective and safer innovative medicines. the joint undertaking is criticised for its inadequate controls on money transfers. the joint undertaking shall be required to submit to the discharge authority a report on the socio-economic benefits of the closed projects. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ although the report is not critical, i support the decision to postpone the discharge because of the insufficient controls on money transfers and the lack of evidence on the socio-economic benefits of the closed projects.
in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013 calls for the postponement of the discharge. i can only note the inadequate controls on money transfers and the request to the joint undertaking to submit to the discharge authority a report on the socioeconomic benefits of the projects already closed, and i can only be in favour of postponing the discharge. that is why i am voting in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the decision to suspend the discharge to the joint undertaking for the innovative medicines initiative and against the resolution on the same subject. it seemed to me logical to suspend the discharge because of the inadequate controls on money transfers: as soon as there is a suspicion, the company cannot be accredited with a discharge for its budget. the commission is first required to submit to the discharge authority a report on the socioeconomic benefits of the closed projects, as this search for efficiency was nevertheless the reason for the creation of the joint undertaking in december 2007.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for this initiative, which aims to promote public-private partnerships in the field of medical research to bring innovative treatments to the market. the innovative medicines initiative has recently shown promising results, particularly in ebola research. the accounting of the initiative is not without errors, due largely to the novelty of the initiative and administrative difficulties. however, corrective measures have already been taken. while the european court of auditors gave a positive opinion, rejecting the discharge would have sent a very bad political signal!
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines to be postponed for the financial year 2013 the joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of significantly improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and with the longer-term objective of the pharmaceutical industry producing more effective and safer innovative medicines. the joint undertaking is criticised for its inadequate controls on money transfers. the joint undertaking shall be required to submit to the discharge authority a report on the socio-economic benefits of the closed projects. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the imi joint undertaking discharge for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines. despite the improvements to be made in terms of the error rate in payments, postponing the discharge would have sent a very bad signal to this joint undertaking which is working in particular on the ebola virus, which is why i welcome the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013 calls for the postponement of the discharge. i can only note the inadequate controls on money transfers and the request to the joint undertaking to submit to the discharge authority a report on the socioeconomic benefits of the projects already closed, and i can only be in favour of postponing the discharge. that is why i am voting in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines to be postponed to the financial year 2013. i voted for this postponement because this joint venture is being criticised for the lack of controls on money transfers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which suggests that the discharge should be postponed. the joint undertaking, which was set up in 2007, is intended to run for 10 years and is normally intended to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process. it should eventually enable the pharmaceutical industry to produce more effective and safer medicines. it is currently criticised by the supervisory authorities for the lack of transparency in its money transfers.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. here the report proposes to postpone the discharge to the imi joint undertaking due to the qualified opinion of the court of auditors on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the joint undertaking's accounts. this procedure has less impact on the commission as it is disconnected from the budgetary issues in court, so its postponement will have little effect. i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the discharge on the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines to be postponed to the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of significantly improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and with the longer-term objective of the pharmaceutical industry producing more effective and safer innovative medicines. the joint undertaking is criticised for its inadequate controls on money transfers. the joint undertaking shall be required to submit to the discharge authority a report on the socio-economic benefits of the closed projects. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. this report proposes to defer the discharge for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013. regretting the inadequacy of controls on money transfers, and noting that the discharge authority is asking the joint undertaking to report on the socio-economic benefits of the closed projects, i decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which gives the 2013 budgetary discharge to the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines. the company was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and to help the pharmaceutical industry produce more effective and safer innovative medicines in the longer term. the court of auditors of the union noted that the budget of eur 970 million allocated to research in 2013 was committed in full. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013 calls for the postponement of the discharge. i can only note the inadequate controls on money transfers and the request to the joint undertaking to submit to the discharge authority a report on the socioeconomic benefits of the projects already closed, and i can only be in favour of postponing the discharge. that is why i am voting in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the increase in chronic diseases, it is important to encourage the development of new medical practices and new medicines. for example, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the innovative medicines initiative.
in writing. the report calls for the postponement of its decision on the discharge to be given to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report. the joint undertaking did not specify in its financial statements the degree of progress of the work in progress. it is necessary for the joint undertaking to submit in due time to the discharge authority a report on the actual level of implementation of the project, the potential risks and the future development of the project. in a procurement procedure, the joint undertaking failed to publicise the procurement by publishing a prior information notice, which constitutes a serious deficiency. in a tender procedure, an increase in costs of 32% was found compared to the initial estimate, thus underlining the unacceptable lack of precision in the forecasts.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge in the absence of information on the progress of the work in progress.
in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013 recommends that its decision on the discharge to the director of the joint undertaking be postponed. i think this adjournment is essential. the joint undertaking does not specify in its financial statements the precise degree of progress of the work being carried out. in addition, shortcomings were found in the procurement procedures of the joint undertaking, in particular the failure to publicise a procurement by publishing a prior information notice. finally, the costs in the context of a tender procedure have increased sharply compared to the initial estimate, which is not a guarantee of good management. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the postponement of the decision on the discharge to be given to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking did not bother to submit its financial statements or the state of progress of its work in progress. however, this data is essential for the discharge authority, which must decide on the basis of the actual level of implementation of projects and the actual or potential risks. an irregularity was also found in the tender procedure, as the company failed to publicise the contract by publishing a prior information notice. these shortcomings in the information provided obviously called for a postponement of the discharge decision.
in writing. like the majority of members, i voted against the decision to postpone the discharge for the financial year 2013. with this vote, i wanted to show my support for this joint venture, which is part of an ambitious intergovernmental project on nuclear energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking for the year 2013. i have voted in favour of this report as a message of confidence and support for this vital project for the future of our planet. we are talking about an international project which is to demonstrate the scientific and technological feasibility of fusion energy, and thus pave the way for its industrial and commercial exploitation. the ultimate goal is to solve our planet's growing energy needs and to solve the problem of fossil fuel use.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a postponement of its decision on the discharge to be given to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking did not specify in its financial statements the degree of progress of the work in progress. it is necessary for the joint undertaking to submit in due time to the discharge authority a report on the actual level of implementation of the project, the potential risks and the future development of the project. in a procurement procedure, the joint undertaking failed to publicise the procurement by publishing a prior information notice, which constitutes a serious deficiency. in a tender procedure, an increase in costs of 32% was found compared to the initial estimate, thus underlining the unacceptable lack of precision in the forecasts. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking for the year 2013. despite the crisis the project experienced last year, it is important to give a signal of confidence to the project in order to participate in its ongoing recovery.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the postponement of its decision on the discharge to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report. the joint undertaking did not specify in its financial statements the degree of progress of the work in progress. it is necessary for the joint undertaking to submit in due time to the discharge authority a report on the actual level of implementation of the project, the potential risks and the future development of the project. in a procurement procedure, the joint undertaking failed to publicise the procurement by publishing a prior information notice, which constitutes a serious deficiency. in a tender procedure, an increase in costs of 32% was found compared to the initial estimate, thus underlining the unacceptable lack of precision in the forecasts.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the decision of the european parliament to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking for the year 2013. this decision is a confidence-building signal to iter after the management crisis experienced by the project last year. it is now up to the new managing director of iter to take the necessary steps to bring iter back on its feet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the report on the discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013 recommends that its decision on the discharge to the director of the joint undertaking be postponed. i think this adjournment is essential. the joint undertaking does not specify in its financial statements the precise degree of progress of the work being carried out. in addition, shortcomings were found in the procurement procedures of the joint undertaking, in particular the failure to publicise a procurement by publishing a prior information notice. finally, the costs in the context of a tender procedure have increased sharply compared to the initial estimate, which is not a guarantee of good management. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted yes. this report calls for the postponement of the decision on the discharge to be given to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the national front meps ask that the joint undertaking submit to the discharge authority a report describing the stage reached in the implementation of the project, the difficulties encountered, the financial risks as an increase in costs of 32% compared to the initial estimate has been noted.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to postpone this grant, which i support as this joint undertaking has not provided any information on the state of progress of the work in progress. it seems impossible to assess the effectiveness of this joint venture under these conditions, and i have therefore voted in favour of this postponement.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. here the report proposes to postpone the discharge to the iter joint undertaking because of a significant risk of an increase in the amount of the joint undertaking's contribution to the construction phase of the iter project. however, this procedure has less impact on the commission as it is disconnected from the budgetary issues in court, so its postponement will not lead to any improvement. i am voting against this report.
in writing. the report calls for the postponement of its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013. the ambitious nuclear research project is very expensive. its estimated cost has been greatly exceeded. the joint undertaking did not specify the level of progress of the work in progress. as for the public procurement procedure, it did not respect any formality of publicity and some of them show a cost much higher than expected. i therefore voted in favour of this text refusing to grant discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the company, which experienced a serious management crisis last year, is recovering. the confidence inspired by the measures implemented by its new director-general, bernard bigot, allowed the discharge to be granted.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the postponement of the discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. the joint undertaking has made a real effort to correct its budget and initiatives in favour of energy research should be encouraged. i therefore voted in favour of closing the financial year of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for 2013. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013 recommends that its decision on the discharge be deferred to the director of the joint undertaking. i think this adjournment is essential. the joint undertaking does not specify in its financial statements the precise degree of progress of the work being carried out. in addition, shortcomings were found in the procurement procedures of the joint undertaking, in particular the failure to publicise a procurement by publishing a prior information notice. finally, the costs in the context of a tender procedure have increased sharply compared to the initial estimate, which is not a guarantee of good management. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the year 2013, contrary to the negative opinion of the committee on budgetary control. the european project has had some management problems in the past year, but today's vote by parliament shows the importance and confidence of meps.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft report, which called for the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy to be deferred to the financial year 2013. iter, the international experimental thermonuclear reactor, is a project to demonstrate the feasibility of nuclear fusion. despite the absence of irregularities in the accounts, the committee on budgetary control voted on 24 march to postpone the discharge, a vote it justified by delays in repayment and budget overruns. despite the crisis in management experienced by the project last year, the recovery is under way and i wish to renew my confidence and support for this unique research project, which is essential for the union's energy future.
in writing. parliament calls for the discharge to be given to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to abstain. the sesar joint undertaking was set up in february 2007 to manage the activities of the single european sky air traffic management research programme. the joint undertaking has put in place specific measures to prevent conflicts of interest for its three main stakeholders: its board of directors, its staff and its experts.
in writing. ‒ i gave the institution a discharge because its operation did not appear, in the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, to contravene the main principles of sound public financial management.
in writing. ‒ while i acknowledge the efforts made to combat conflicts of interest, i preferred to abstain on the report.
in writing. this report calls for the discharge to be given to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the sesar joint undertaking was established in february 2007 to manage the activities of the single european sky air traffic management research programme. the final budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 included commitment appropriations of eur 64,3 million and payment appropriations of eur 105,4 million with a commitment and payment appropriations execution rate of 99,6% and 94,7% respectively. i would prefer to wait to judge the effectiveness of the measure, so i decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i wish to abstain on this report calling for the discharge to be given to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i am happy to acknowledge the good work of the company in terms of the measures taken to prevent and manage conflicts of interest for the three main stakeholders, namely board members, employees and experts. however, air traffic remains a sensitive subject which should be dealt with separately in an open dialogue with the industrial sectors concerned and the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the sesar joint undertaking, which was well managed overall in the financial year 2013. however, i would like to draw attention to the fact that a rapprochement should be made with the clean sky joint undertaking, where synergies are feasible.
in writing. ‒ parliament calls for the discharge to be given to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to abstain. the sesar joint undertaking was set up in february 2007 to manage the activities of the single european sky air traffic management research programme. the joint undertaking has put in place specific measures to prevent conflicts of interest for its three main stakeholders: its board of directors, its staff and its experts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the sesar joint undertaking. this vote, based on the examination of the annual accounts and the annual report of the court of auditors, validates the use made of the resources allocated by the union and the efforts made to correct any shortcomings. the discharge was given by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this sesar joint undertaking is to manage the activities of the single european sky air traffic management research programme. although no major error was found, we are opposed to these systematic discharge decisions and dominique martin abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. as the sesar budget is only one component of the european 2013 budget, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
in writing. this report proposes to grant the sesar joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. like clean sky, this joint undertaking was established in 2007 to manage the activities of the single european sky air traffic management research programme. the joint undertaking has taken care to put in place specific measures concerning conflicts of interest for the most sensitive members. however, in the absence of a report on the socio-economic benefits of the projects carried out by sesar, and therefore on its real added value, i cannot judge the effectiveness of the appropriations allocated. in these circumstances, i decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the accounts are hereby cleared, the budget of the joint undertaking responsible for managing the activities of the single european sky air traffic management research programme having been implemented without material error. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. the discharge process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the sesar joint undertaking, a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the budget for this partnership. the sesar joint undertaking has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made. the adoption of this text brings the 2013 budgetary year of the european union to a close. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
in writing. the report shows that significant work has been done on the fight against conflicts of interest. however, i do not want to support the discharge and therefore i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the increase in air traffic highlights the importance of ensuring european air traffic control. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget for the sesar initiative.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation on monetary funds, presented to the european parliament, rightly seeks to correct certain shortcomings in these short-term investment instruments. the strict limitation of constant liquidity was necessary to reduce systemic risk when the holders are characterised by mimetic movements, in particular in the event of massive asset depreciations where losses are borne by the sponsoring banking institution. the framework for securitisation and derivatives is a good balance between the objective of risk finance and the fight against the derivatives of financial structures that are difficult to identify. but this text is not based on a sound study and assessment of the consequences of the regulatory changes, especially in view of the possible circumvention of these provisions and the impact on the economy. the lack of longterm vision in this text explains my abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the securitisation framework and the request for additional requirements for constant liquidity value (clv) money funds, but i am afraid that the accumulation of regulations will be counterproductive.
in writing. monetary funds are financial instruments which allow cash to be invested in the short term and in principle without risk. the amount of these loans is considerable, estimated at eur 1 trillion. about 22% of short-term debt securities issued by governments or companies in europe are held by money funds, which also hold 38% of short-term debt issued by the banking sector. it is always regrettable that securitisation or derivatives are not more widely prohibited in this report. similarly, the impact study of the abolition of the cnavs could have been more precise on the consequences for european management by country, for example. finally, i think that this text seems rather pragmatic and goes in the right direction, but it is difficult to assess the impact of the new regulation in the event of a major crisis. i therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. while i am in favour of the ban on constant net asset value (cnav) funds, i consider that the text is very vague as it contains many exceptions to this ban. for example , navs are allowed for funds linked to the public debt of the union; the funds for small investors, which a priori include only charitable organisations, non-profit organisations and public administrations and foundations. finally, the report on the proposed regulation does not go far enough, since it does not ban securitisation or derivatives, which are the cause of the terrible subprime crisis. i abstained on that vote.
in writing. ‒ monetary funds are short-term financing instruments that have a very rapid impact on the real economy. they represent €1 trillion of financial transactions in europe. although the use of mmfs carries certain risks, they remain the most stable and reliable financial instruments in the non-banking sector. monetary funds were heavily criticized during the crisis, especially the riskiest of them, the cnav (constant liquidity value funds). the other types of money funds, vnav (variable liquidity value funds) have proved more resilient. action was therefore needed to regulate the money market in the european union. the european parliament's report shows a desire to limit the risks associated with the most risky monetary funds, the navs. the latter are thus divided into three categories: small investors' cnavs, public debt cnavs and lvnavs (low-volatility funds). that's an encouraging first step. however, the significant risks posed by navs must be borne in mind throughout the legislative process. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on the proposal for a regulation on monetary funds. if i consider that it is necessary to prohibit constant net asset value (cnav) funds, the text is, in my view, too vague, since it contains exceptions to this prohibition. the nacs thus remain authorised for funds linked to the public debt of the union; funds for small investors which, a priori, include only charitable organisations, non-profit organisations, public administrations and public foundations; finally, low-volatility funds, whose definition depends on very strict and rigid criteria. the report on the proposed regulation does not go far enough, since it does not absolutely prohibit securitisation or derivatives, which were the cause of the 2008 financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to create a regulatory framework for mmfs with the aim of ensuring stronger investor protection and improving financial stability by limiting the risks of contagion in the event of default. i believe that this report is a step in the right direction towards regulating the banking sector and its financial products, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. monetary funds are a short-term investment channel, an alternative to bank deposits. they allow diversification of credit risks. they are therefore used by many actors: businesses, public administrations (especially local authorities), financial institutions, but also social actors (charities, social housing, etc.). i therefore think it is important to frame them at european level. this is all the more so as, as the crisis has shown, they can be a factor of instability for the whole internal market. it is essential to set out precise rules so that they are able to respond to investor claims for reimbursement in all circumstances, without recourse to external support.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation on monetary funds, presented to the european parliament, rightly seeks to correct certain shortcomings in these short-term investment instruments. the strict limitation of constant liquidity was necessary to reduce systemic risk when the holders are characterised by mimetic movements, in particular in the event of massive asset depreciations where losses are borne by the sponsoring banking institution. the framework for securitisation and derivatives is a good balance between the objective of risk finance and the fight against the derivatives of financial structures that are difficult to identify. however, this text is not based on a sound study and assessment of the consequences of regulatory changes, in particular with regard to possible circumvention of these provisions and the impact on the economy. the lack of longterm vision in this text explains my abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the compromise on the monetary funds, because this text contains significant advances in the management of these funds, while allowing them to continue to finance the economy. changing a single word of the compromise reached in the econ committee would very likely have meant losing these advances. the commission and the council of ministers will now be meeting in trialogue to find solutions, particularly on tax havens, in line with the legislation on european social entrepreneurship funds, and on the question of whether or not certain types of monetary funds (constant, variable or low-volatility) should eventually disappear.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation on monetary funds, presented to the european parliament, rightly seeks to correct certain shortcomings in these short-term investment instruments. the strict limitation of constant liquidity was necessary to reduce systemic risk when the holders are characterised by mimetic movements, in particular in the event of massive asset depreciations where losses are borne by the sponsoring banking institution. the framework for securitisation and derivatives is a good balance between the objective of risk finance and the fight against the derivatives of financial structures that are difficult to identify. however, this text is not based on a sound study and assessment of the consequences of regulatory changes, in particular with regard to possible circumvention of these provisions and the impact on the economy. the lack of longterm vision in this text explains my abstention from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague nina gill on the european monetary funds, which proposes better regulation of the european monetary funds and better cooperation and risk-sharing between them, in order to prevent a new financial crisis. this report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure the uniformity of prudential requirements for mmfs across the union. the monetary funds provide short-term financing for financial institutions, businesses and public administrations, and in this way contribute to the financing of the european economy. the report aims to provide mmfs with a regulatory framework that protects investors and enhances financial stability. i welcome that vote.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal to introduce new legislative instruments to promote development represents a leap forward to overcome the lack of investment in the european union. in its desire to encourage the development of monetary funds to provide short-term financing for financial institutions, companies and public administrations, the commission is right to take the view that there is a flagrant lack of investment in the european union. however, developing this type of financial instrument ultimately only promotes debt securitisation practices, the same ones that led to the 2008 crisis, i.e. speculation instead of productive investment. i therefore voted against this proposal which offers us dangerous answers to the lack of investment. it is the availability of credit and its conditions that we must work on, not its exchange.
in writing. - abstention from voting. the draft regulation on european monetary funds aims to limit the constant liquidity funds that were involved in the 2008 financial crisis and are already banned in the united states. the same initiative by the european union, except in a few specific cases, because they represent 50% of the funds in the european union: funds linked to public debt, funds for small investors, funds with low volatility. that said, some criticisms: the 3% liquidity mattress which was intended to deal with a large outflow of investors was not retained and there is no precise impact study of the suppression of these funds on european country management. what are the consequences of this? it is therefore difficult to assess the impact of the new regulations in the event of a major crisis, which is regrettable and can be dangerous.
in writing. ‒ finally, the proposal recognises the major risks of shadow banking , which refers to all activities and actors contributing to the non-bank financing of the economy. money market funds (mmfs) provide short-term financing to financial institutions, businesses and public administrations and contribute to the financing of the european economy. in order to safeguard the integrity and stability of the internal market, the proposed regulation introduces new rules aimed at both making the monetary funds more resilient to new financial crises and at safeguarding their role in financing the economy. the report proposes the creation of three cnav funds (constant net worth), with a five-year maturity clause for one of them. this regulation is paltry in the face of the risks that finance takes on the real economy. it is tantamount to absolving the role of non-bank financing and the power of private money creation. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ after more than a year and a half of debate, the proposed text reverses the original proposal to abolish money market funds with constant liquidity, which represent the main risk of financial instability. this is regrettable, especially since the csf and icso have recommended their outright removal. the text also lacks clarity on how the liquidity value on new vlfv funds is calculated. it is also regrettable that investment in securitisation vehicles, even highly supervised ones, is possible. the abolition of the sponsors' mechanism and the main rules governing the management of monetary funds should be welcomed. in the end, we cannot approve this text which is not fully logical, probably under pressure from the financial industry. our abstention reflects the lingering doubt about the effectiveness of reforms that are otherwise necessary.
in writing. this report relates to the issue of monetary funds. the aim is to adopt a draft european regulation on them. these are financial instruments for short-term investment with no cash flow risk in principle, with an estimated volume of eur 1 trillion. while the existence of these monetary funds can hardly be criticised, the text can nevertheless be criticised for not restricting securitisation or the use of derivatives sufficiently. the impact assessment accompanying the text is also too vague as regards the consequences for european management by country. in these circumstances, i decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. the report on the monetary funds presents several problems. despite the high level of uncertainty and speculation which characterizes the monetary funds used by banks as a quick source of liquidity for investors, the report does not aim at their abolition, but just the phasing out after five years of a certain type of monetary fund. in view of the turmoil caused by these financial instruments in the united states, i voted against this report, which provides no real guarantees as to the use of these funds and which consolidates speculative finance.
in writing. it is always regrettable that securitisation or derivatives are not more widely prohibited. the impact study of the abolition of the cnavs could have been more precise on the consequences for european management by country for example. sometimes the accumulation of regulations can be counterproductive. in this case, the text can be regarded as rather pragmatic. however, it is difficult to assess the impact of the new regulation in the event of a major crisis. i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis that has shaken europe's financial systems has sent an alarm to european policymakers about the importance and need for greater control of monetary funds. since the systems differ from one member state to another, the commission has tried to propose a text which is to apply to the whole of the union. this text was the subject of intense negotiations in parliament. it not only includes elements impacting the financing of the european economy but also concerns the systemic risks that these investment funds pose to the world economy. parliament adopted a compromise text on wednesday which seeks to satisfy all the member states as far as possible. i voted in favour of this agreement and i support the work of my colleagues in the econ committee who have been careful to protect the interests of the french sector.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the european commission proposed a draft regulation on monetary funds, which provide finance to the economy and public administrations. it aims to regulate shadow banking, non-bank financing, which operates like shadow banks and offers constant remuneration despite fluctuating markets, in order to strengthen the stability of the financial system. the proposal covers three constant value monetary funds (c-nav), but does not include them in the same way as conventional banks. meps from both the right and the social democrats voted against the requirement to hold reserves, as in conventional banks, and against limiting the remuneration of fund managers and prohibiting money funds operating in the eu from also operating in tax havens. i therefore voted against this false framework which does not respect the eu's international commitments in this area and which does not measure up to the necessary financial regulation. this is just a first reading. it is now up to the member states to take a position on this text in the council.
in writing. ‒ the report presented to the european parliament endorses a legal development. it therefore seems to me consistent and appropriate, in the interests of clarity and legal certainty, to vote in favour of this text which repeals a regulation which no longer has any reason to be maintained in the european legal order, as serbia has concluded an association agreement with the european union covering the areas concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which again seeks to remove competences from the member states.
in writing. this is a report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements or by other specific eu import arrangements. this is a recast of ec regulation no 517/94, the only countries concerned are belarus and north korea. the regulation under examination sets annual quantitative limits on imports of several textile products originating in these two countries, the management and distribution of which are the subject of a commission implementing regulation, and allows the union to put in place safeguard and surveillance measures. i therefore voted against the text because it goes against the sovereignty of the member states. i also believe that it would be more useful to regulate the import of textile products from asian countries such as china, bangladesh and india, which are unfair competitors and have killed our european textile industries, as in the vosges department.
in writing. this report is a simple codification of ec regulation no 51/94 of 7 march 1994 on the common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by specific union import arrangements. member states should communicate their import statistics to the european commission so that it can take the necessary delegated acts. i voted against this text, rejecting the mechanism of delegated acts in principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because, while it is in theory a mere revision of ec regulation no 51/94 of 7 march 1994 on the common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by specific import arrangements of the union, it is in fact a further infringement of the sovereignty of the member states. the new obligations are imposed on member states, which must immediately forward all their information to the european commission, the great authority - the only one competent to adopt delegated acts: 'in the emergency cases referred to in article 13, the member state or member states concerned shall immediately forward to the commission and the other member states the necessary import statistics and economic data'. i therefore rejected the text, because i am attached to the prerogatives of sovereign nations.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the codification of an existing regulation on the common import regime in general and on imports of textile products in particular. this proposal does not introduce any major change in the substance of the text. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. i support this text, which makes technical amendments and strengthens the coherence and legal certainty of the union's import regime. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this regulation regulates the volume of imports of textiles from belarus and north korea, which are not covered by a specific import regime. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that technical clarifications are essential for the proper application of european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the walesa report on the import of textile products from certain third countries not covered by specific import arrangements of the union. i welcome the adoption of this report which is a clarification by bringing together in a single act the amendments to the underlying texts on the subject.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by specific import arrangements of the union. this report is part of a harmonisation procedure following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which aims to ensure that the old decision-making procedure applicable in commercial policy is compatible with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ the proposal concerns the codification and recasting of regulation (ec) no 517/94 of 7 march 1994 on the common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific eu import arrangements. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
in writing. ‒ unlike the text voted earlier in the session, this report concerns imports of textile products from third countries not covered by schemes, in this case belarus and north korea. although it is a recast, this new text is unfavourable to the member states, whose powers it removes in favour of the european commission. dominique martin therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of the regulation on the common rules for imports of textile products. however, this is a textile product from certain third countries not covered by agreements or other specific import arrangements of the union. the regulation lays down annual quantitative limits on imports of several textile products originating in these countries. it allows the union to put in place safeguard and surveillance measures. these measures are necessary. but the regulation leaves the commission with full power to act by means of implementing and delegated acts. the commission will do what it wants, out of sight. i am opposed to the commission's interference in these areas and i am voting against.
in writing. this is a report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements or by other specific eu import arrangements. this is a recast of ec regulation no 517/94, the only countries concerned are belarus and north korea. however, even though the above provisions have been codified and revised, the commission has given an unfavourable meaning to the powers of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical recast text on the import of textile products from certain third countries not covered by specific import arrangements of the union. due to the sensitivity of the union textile sector, it is necessary to establish surveillance measures applicable at union level for a limited number of products originating in certain third countries. the text also provides for measures to standardise and simplify the formalities to be completed by importers from the union.
in writing. this text removes powers from the member states. this is not a simple technical redesign. i cannot accept any further reduction in the sovereignty of the states and therefore i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ at a time when trade between the european union and third countries is important, there is a need to strengthen the rules in place and update the procedures. i voted in favour of the amendments to the arrangements for imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by specific import arrangements of the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the revision of the existing regulation on the common rules for imports in general and on imports of textile products from certain third countries. this revision is part of the omnibus i and ii directives and the preparation of consolidated texts to bring together in a single act all the amendments to the underlying texts.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal concerns the codification and recasting of the regulation on the common rules applicable to imports of textile products from certain third countries not covered by bilateral agreements, protocols or other arrangements, or by other specific eu import rules. (unlike the first vote, which concerns specific agreements between the eu and third countries). the only countries affected are belarus and north korea. i am voting against because it is theoretically a reworking of the text, but it has been amended by the commission in a way that is unfavourable to the powers of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this multiannual framework does not call for the union to reduce its spending significantly, even though the member states are subject to strict austerity policies. the european union cannot escape the need for savings and must ensure that these are not made at the expense of informing the citizens. it is imperative that everyone can keep up to date with the exchanges and in particular with the written questions addressed by meps to the community institutions. on the other hand, we must put an end to all the temptations to european integration and the myths that justify it, such as the construction of the parliamentarium, which are costly, vain and ideological. my vote also denounces the lack of rationalization in the breakdown of expenditure. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this report which again provides for a large increase in the budget: what a blunder!
in writing. this is a report on the estimated state of parliament's budget for 2016. this forecast envisages increasing the parliament's budget for 2016 by 1.6%, which is more than the expected inflation, to reach a total cost of €1.8 billion. for example, it is proposed to increase the furniture renewal budget from eur 3 million in 2015 to eur 7 million in 2016. the eu and parliament should instead focus on rationalising spending and rigorously managing public money at the very moment when it is constantly demanding efforts from citizens who can no longer stand this austerity corset. moreover, the desire of some to keep a single seat of the parliament in brussels and not in strasbourg would further weaken france's position in the eu. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for 2016. through this report i have had the opportunity to speak in favour of preserving the questions written in all languages and accessible on the internet. it seems to me that it is essential that our fellow citizens have access to the scope of our work. the issues we raise with the european commission must be able to be consulted. these issues are very often relevant to the daily lives of european citizens. we must work for more transparency and not the other way around. multilingualism is also a fundamental value of the european union. we must preserve it. i also had the opportunity to point out that under european law parliament is based in strasbourg.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this text which approves the increased budget for the european parliament. the report thus envisages setting the level of current operating expenditure for the financial year 2016 at eur 1 823 648 600, an increase of 1,6% compared to the 2015 budget. i do not only think that this increase is unnecessary, since it represents an additional burden for the taxpayers of the member states, but the text also endangers certain interests of france. the european parliament is called upon to abolish the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg. apart from the fact that strasbourg is the historic seat of the parliament in the history of european integration - a symbol of france's place in the concert of european nations - plenary sessions represent a real added value for the city of strasbourg - and therefore for the french economy - and the abolition of this seat would be dramatic in terms of revenue and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the provisional statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016. this multiannual framework does not call for the union to reduce its expenditure significantly even though the member states are subject to severe austerity policies. the european union cannot escape the need for savings and must ensure that these are not made at the expense of informing the citizens. it is imperative that everyone can keep up to date with the exchanges and in particular with the written questions addressed by meps to the community institutions. on the other hand, we must put an end to all the temptations to european integration and the myths that justify it, such as the construction of the parliamentarium, which are costly, vain and ideological. my vote also denounces the lack of rationalization in the breakdown of expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the general proposal by rapporteur gérard deprez on the european parliament's revenue and expenditure forecast for 2016. however, i would like to emphasize the highly symbolic and historic character of the european parliament's seat in strasbourg, the city at the heart of franco-german reconciliation and european integration. for several years, meps have consistently advocated a single seat, which means that all activities should be moved back to brussels. i would remind you that these amendments are tabled in contravention of the treaties which establish the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg and require the agreement of the member states for any amendment. unfortunately, successive enlargements have had the effect of increasing the disinterest of the new members in the foundations of the european construction, which are the symbolic and historical landmarks of any european citizen who wishes to understand its meaning and motivations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the provisional statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016. this multiannual framework does not call for the union to reduce its expenditure significantly even though the member states are subject to severe austerity policies. the european union cannot escape the need for savings and must ensure that these are not made at the expense of informing the citizens. it is imperative that everyone can keep up to date with the exchanges and in particular with the written questions addressed by meps to the community institutions. on the other hand, we must put an end to all the temptations to european integration and the myths that justify it, such as the construction of the parliamentarium, which are costly, vain and ideological. my vote also denounces the lack of rationalization in the breakdown of expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague gérard deprez on the estimated budget of the european parliament for the year 2016. the draft budget proposes to strengthen security, support legislative work and increase the secretariat budget. this report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the estimated revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the guidelines for the preparation of parliament's 2016 budget. the same people who advocate austerity in all european and national budgets are proposing to increase the budget of parliament by more than 3%. for several years now, this budget has been growing faster than inflation, without any democratic progress being seen as a result. to justify these regular increases, the report cites achievements as questionable and unrelated to the parliamentary mission as the house of european history. the priority now given to parliamentary work is totally ineffective. as resources increase, the practical conditions for legislative work deteriorate: an increasing number of texts are not available just before they are voted on and an even greater number are no longer translated. and this report proposes savings as absurd as stopping the publication of parliamentary questions to the commission on the internet. on the other hand, the considerable resources of the parliamentary bodies, which are jointly managed by the epp and the pse, are not being cut. the growth of the resources of this parliament is inversely proportional to that of its real powers in the european union. i vote against it.
in writing. this is a report on the estimated state of parliament's budget for 2016. this forecast envisages increasing the parliament's budget for 2016 by 1.6%, which is more than the expected inflation, to reach a total cost of €1.8 billion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. for example, the budget for the renovation of parliament's furniture is to be increased from €3 million in 2015 to €7 million in 2016. and what about the house of european history, a veritable temple dedicated to europeanist propaganda, the cost of which, paid for by this parliament, is estimated at 56 million euros. instead of rationalising these sumptuous expenditures, many voices in the committee on budgets are calling for the strasbourg site to be removed in favour of a single seat in brussels. this would mean a further intolerable weakening of france to the benefit of the cold monster of brussels and the alienation of the peoples. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the estimated revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2016. the text provides for enhanced security and cybersecurity of parliament and increased support for legislative work. i voted against the amendment to put the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg in question.
in writing. the report on the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for 2016 provides for an increase in the number of parliamentary committees and for increased security at workplaces. although some expenditure is necessary to ensure the salaries of staff, a series of items of expenditure which are cumulated with each other are unreasonable, in this case the increases in appropriations for parliamentary assistants, the increase in appropriations for european political parties without any conditions or justification, or the doubling of the appropriation for renewing the furniture of the offices of the european parliament against which i tabled amendments. the same people who are asking european citizens to make sacrifices are giving themselves unnecessary increases, and i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. this estimate is obviously unacceptable. it is indeed increasing, even as the european institutions continue to impose austerity measures with dramatic effects throughout the european union. and much of this expenditure is either completely unnecessary or lavish. the example of the 2014 european election campaign shows that the money invested in communication is useless: citizens expected concrete results from the european union and found that it is unable to put itself in a position to achieve them, they are not ready to be convinced by simple promotional campaigns paid at their expense. i voted against this text without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009, the european parliament has shared decision-making power with the council on budgetary matters. the european parliament adopted on wednesday the resolution on the estimated state of revenue and expenditure for the 2016 financial year. i voted in favour of this balanced proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the deprez report which lists the estimated state of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure for the year 2016. however, i voted against paragraph 7 of the original report, which recalls that considerable savings could be made if parliament had only one place of work instead of three (brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg). other behind this formula is yet another attack on the single official seat of strasbourg and a desire to repatriate all parliamentary activities to brussels, in defiance of history and the treaties.
in writing. ‒ the deprez report sets out parliament's demands for its operating budget for the year 2016. while the report ensures that the current expenditure of our institution is kept within the limits of inflation, the increase in the salary package for assistants has been the subject of controversy in the media, thus fuelling anti-parliamentarism. but democracy comes at a cost, and i fully accept this request. the increase, it should be remembered, has no impact on parliament's budget, since it is offset by reductions in other operating costs. we, the elected representatives of the european parliament, have a real need for expertise, particularly in the face of the power of a certain lobby which spends hundreds of millions of euros in brussels. this envelope is separate and sealed from parliamentary allowances and unused funds return to the parliament's budget. however, in the current context where the elected members of the front national are suspected of fraud on the use of this envelope, it was essential to ask for greater transparency and control of these expenses. i therefore only supported this report on the condition that it was transparent. the final vote of parliament on its budget will take place next autumn and i shall be extremely vigilant in the application of the measures proposed today.
in writing. ‒ this report on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office aims to entrust a single and independent body at european level with the task of investigating and prosecuting criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the union . fraud is high - €3 billion is suspected to be involved each year - and only 30% of olaf's judicial recommendations were reviewed between 2006 and 2013. however, the council is seeking to create a collegiate body with competence equivalent to that of the member states. this is therefore a new federalist offensive. it is essential that the member states retain their powers of regulation, especially in the field of justice. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i am strongly opposed to the creation of a european public prosecutor's office and i voted against this report, which i consider scandalous.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that fraud costs the european union more than eur 500 million a year. we need a body capable of fighting offenses which harm the financial interests of the european union. this interim report makes it possible to continue the process of drawing up a european public prosecutor's office, while the matter is blocked in the council. this body should be independent and have its own legal personality. it will be essential to have a clear division of powers between the national authorities and the public prosecutor's office. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which shows the barely concealed desire for a new step towards the federalisation of the european union. the aim is to create a new european institution, a collegiate body that would compete directly with national prosecutor's offices, under the pretext of defending the eu's financial interests . after the court of justice of the european union, which has deepened european integration, almost with every decision, by its very personal interpretation of european law, the creation of a european public prosecutor's office would therefore mark a new extension of this "government of judges" that the european union is becoming. the eu is unable to fight fraud and as usual is trying to cover up its failures by forcing federalisation, in defiance of all democratic criteria.
in writing. this report calls for the establishment of a single, strong and independent european public prosecutor's office, which will be able to investigate, prosecute and bring to justice those responsible for offences affecting the financial interests of the union . the council is in favour of a collegiate body composed of one european prosecutor per member state, headed by an attorney general and with competence equivalent to that of national prosecutor's offices. under the guise of fighting fraud, which is indeed considerable, this is therefore a new federalist offensive aimed at undermining the sovereignty of the member states. i have decided to oppose the creation of this european prosecutor's office, considering that justice, like currency, foreign affairs and borders, should be a matter for the member states.
in writing. i voted against the interim report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office presented by mrs macovei. the explanatory statement is very doubtful and i cannot accept this new european federalist intrusion, which is contrary to the defence of national sovereignty, which i am promoting. justice is one of the areas of the crown which are the exclusive competence of each state. i refuse to see france subject to a european justice system. this new abandonment of sovereignty is unacceptable. the various instruments of international cooperation, particularly in the criminal field, which already exist, are sufficient for the objective of effective justice, respecting the prerogatives of each state.
in writing. under the pretext of better defending the financial interests of the union and aware of the insufficient powers of the anti-fraud office (olaf), the european union is seeking to create a genuine european prosecutor's office which would compete with national prosecutor's offices and could prosecute, without prior agreement of a member state, any person suspected of breaching european law. the creation of the european public prosecutor's office violates the judicial sovereignty of each member state. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is an interim report on the negotiations to establish a european public prosecutor's office. once established under the lisbon treaty, this institution would defend the union's financial interests and investigate alleged infringements, whether fraud or revenue forgone, affecting the european budget. this report focuses on the competence and jurisdiction of such a european public prosecutor's office, procedural rights and relations with the other union bodies competent in judicial and anti-fraud matters, namely eurojust and olaf. the report also argues that parliament, the only democratically elected institution, should play a role in the process of appointing and selecting judges. i consider this text to be balanced and to be appropriate to move forward on this issue, since fraud costs european citizens at least €500 million a year, and i voted in favour of this interim report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office aims to entrust a single and independent body at european level with the task of investigating and prosecuting criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the union . fraud is high - €3 billion is suspected to be involved each year - and only 30% of olaf's judicial recommendations were reviewed between 2006 and 2013. however, the council is seeking to create a collegiate body with competence equivalent to that of the member states. this is therefore a new federalist offensive. it is essential that the member states retain their powers of regulation, especially in the field of justice. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ the european union continues its aggression against national sovereignty, see separation of powers. while its sovereignty comes from nowhere, it now claims to be the prosecutor of who knows what against who knows who. this is an unacceptable violation of the fundamental principles of law and the basic principles of justice. the french judiciary, which is not without its faults, judges "in the name of the french people" only in theory. in whose name will the decisions of the european prosecutor be taken?
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which aims to create a genuine european prosecutor's office to fill the gaps in the current system of law enforcement, which relies exclusively on national efforts. the european public prosecutor's office will be responsible for combating criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the union. it is estimated that fraud costs the european union at least €500 million a year, due to budgetary fraud and revenue forgone. however, the transnational dimension of these offences is generally not recognised by the national authorities. this report therefore underlines our commitment to the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office as a single and independent structure, whose competence could eventually extend to offences other than those affecting the eu's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ the amount of fraud affecting the financial interests of the european union is estimated at eur 500 million per year. these violations are encouraged by the lack of coordination of our public ministries. in the long term, and given the interdependence of our economies, the creation of an independent european prosecutor's office to ensure better coordination of investigations and prosecutions is necessary. i therefore support the creation of the european public prosecutor's office, which will help to overcome the legal limitations we are currently facing, particularly with regard to transnational offences. i would, however, caution the european institutions against the temptation to overstep the prerogatives of national parliaments. in this case, a number of parliaments, including the french senate, considered that the principle of subsidiarity had not been respected. while i support the creation of the european public prosecutor's office in principle, i believe that a duty of information and education to national representatives remains essential because they are the first guarantors of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ this report on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office aims to entrust a single and independent body at european level with the task of investigating and prosecuting criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the union . fraud is high - €3 billion is suspected to be involved each year - and only 30% of olaf's judicial recommendations were reviewed between 2006 and 2013. however, the council is seeking to create a collegiate body with competence equivalent to that of the member states. this is therefore a new federalist offensive. it is essential that the member states retain their powers of regulation, especially in the field of justice. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague monica macovei, which proposes the creation of a european public prosecutor's office to combat criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the union. fraud costs the european union at least €500 million a year. the report criticises the organisation proposed by the council and calls for a more rational workload for the prosecution service at central level. this report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, because it is yet another federalist offensive aimed at undermining the sovereignty of the member states. the report argues that a european public prosecutor's office would be more effective in investigating and prosecuting offences affecting the financial interests of the european union, in improving recovery operations and in enhancing taxpayers' confidence in the european institutions. the continuous expansion of the powers of the european union has never led to a strengthening of taxpayers' confidence. the work of this european prosecutor's office can be done perfectly well by national prosecutor's offices. while fraud is a major problem, it is at the source that procedures need to be improved. it is unacceptable that the european union should use its own shortcomings to further expand its powers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it calls for the creation of a european prosecutor's office that is totally independent of national governments, which would therefore undermine national sovereignty. the prosecutor's office will also have a very broad remit, consisting of 'fighting fraud offences affecting the eu's financial interests', which is likely to aggravate this infringement of national sovereignty. i believe that criminal justice should remain a royal prerogative of the state.
in writing. - i vote against it. parliament wants to '... entrust a single and independent body at european level with the task of investigating and prosecuting criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the union'. the organization of this body will be collegial, with one european prosecutor per member state, who will be placed under the direction of an attorney general and will have a competence which, and this is something i am opposed to, will be equivalent to that of national prosecutors. we therefore have a desire to weaken once again the sovereignty of the member states under the pretext of the fight against fraud, which is certainly a reality, but to which parliament wants to give a response that does not correspond to the will of the national front to restore the sovereignty of the state. i therefore oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. the council wishes to create a collegiate institution, comprising one european prosecutor per member state, headed by an attorney general and with competence comparable to that of national prosecutor's offices. under the guise of fighting fraud, the aim is to impose a supranational entity which undermines the sovereignty of states. i strongly object to that.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the creation of a european public prosecutor's office last march, as did many national parliaments. the report is intended to rush the project forward, without a clear legal definition of the powers of this european criminal court. in the end, justice is not justice if it is not done in the name of the sovereign people. an additional supranational body would be created. but what is the relationship with eurojust or the national courts? the report calls for the appointment of european prosecutors totally independent of national governments contrary to the position of the member states. finally, we know the many difficulties faced by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) and the complaints from member states about the quality of its work. but it cannot be automatically assumed, as the commission does, that the failure of the member states to follow up with olaf reflects problems within the member states. i am once again opposed to giving the council and the commission any information on this matter.
in writing. the text proposes the creation of a european public prosecutor's office which would take over entire parts of the judicial system of the member states. the avowed objective is that this european justice system should replace national courts, thus strengthening the supremacy of european union law over national law. the judiciary is one of the foundations of the state and national sovereignty. the latter is not divisible, any more than the point in geometry is divisible. and yet the eu, with its european parliamentary system, is always planning to dismember the sovereignty of the member states at the expense of the citizens, since this institution would disappear with democracy everywhere. justice is done in the name of the french people. the european people are a chimera, as the karlsruhe constitutional court pointed out in a 2009 judgment, and this european public prosecutor's office is a utopia. the real solution to crossborder crime lies in the restoration of borders, which the eu categorically rejects, and in more effective cooperation between member state authorities. in these circumstances, i naturally voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. the aim is to combat fraud that harms the financial interests of the european union and its citizens. the amount of such fraud is estimated at €3 billion per year. the text also recalls that terrorism derives part of its funding from organised crime and fraud. finally, a european public prosecutor's office will make it possible to combat crossborder crime more effectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office; the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the european union's financial instruments, in particular the european social fund, which is to be implemented by the end of the year. the european public prosecutor's office, as provided for in the lisbon treaty, would be fully independent and would make it possible to better prosecute and try the guilty.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted by a large majority the interim report on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. i voted in favour of this report and i support the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. the purpose of this body will be to combat criminal offences affecting the financial interests of the union (including tax fraud).
in writing. justice is a prerogative of the monarch, consubstantial with the very notion of the state, indispensable to ensure the sovereignty of the people. the very idea of a european public prosecutor's office is a heresy in relation to the definition of the state and even more so of democracy. it is therefore obvious that i cannot accept this text and i have therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the council is in favour of a collegiate body composed of one european prosecutor per member state, headed by an attorney general and with competence equivalent to that of national prosecutor's offices. it is therefore a new federalist offensive aimed at undermining the sovereignty of the member states under the guise of fighting fraud, which is indeed considerable. i vote against.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in 2000, the arusha agreements put an end to several years of civil war in burundi, several years of clashes, mainly between hutus and tutsis. they brought to power the first hutu president in the country's history and helped to develop a process of national reconciliation and the establishment of a new constitution. the outgoing president's decision to seek a third term in office challenges this delicate balance. it's been brewing for weeks. the confirmation of this decision by the ruling party congress provoked a wave of protests and the response was a full-scale repression. ngos in the region have already reported several deaths and hundreds of arrests. the imbonerakure, members of the ruling party's youth league, are at the forefront of the abuse. hutu and tutsi voices are calling for the president to come to his senses. even voices within the ruling party, such as those of the president's spokesperson and the party's spokesperson, were suppressed. these people have even been removed from office. more than 20,000 burundians have already fled the country, fearing for their safety. the european union must put its full weight on the balance and put pressure on the president and the authorities of the country. it must, if necessary, question its support for the country, which depends for more than 50% of its budget on external aid, and, if necessary, also question its support for the electoral process, which can only exist if we have the assurance of transparent and fair elections. we know that the voices of the european union and the european parliament are heard in burundi. we must not allow the destabilization of this region to continue. we must act quickly to avoid another bloodbath.
mr president, i thank my colleagues for this unanimous testimony. the horrific murder of 148 students in garissa, beyond the condemnation, must bring us face to face with two realities. between 150 and 200 million christians are slaughtered worldwide for their faith. this makes them the first community of martyrs. this christianophobia is often doubled by our silence, but that is not the case today - i must say. but our newspapers have denied that religion was behind these massacres, including the recent ones. in the name of living together, should we ignore christian martyrs and keep silent? no, we must always denounce what is happening. the martyrdom of christians in the east and africa is also being magnified by the irresponsible interventions, it must be said, of the west behind the stupid policy of the united states. i am thinking of the intervention in iraq, i am thinking of the intervention in libya, i am thinking of the intervention in syria, where, because of these interventions, christians are being massacred at the moment. we are partly responsible for this follow-up and for our refusal to adopt a european policy.
mr president, the attack in garissa, these heinous crimes, have reminded us that east africa is not only a zone of islamist terrorist acts, but also a major source of destabilisation which, through al-shabab and the actions carried out by these terrorists in neighbouring countries, is similar to what is happening in central africa with boko haram, in the sahel with al-qaida in the islamic maghreb or in the near and middle east with the islamic state. the threat of al-shabab has already hit neighboring countries hard. uganda was hit, as was kenya, before garissa, and djibouti was hit as well. i think we need to take stock of the threat posed by this terrorist group. the european union must reaffirm its support, which is important, contrary to what some colleagues have suggested, for african forces in the region and for individual countries fighting terrorism. there is no discrimination between victims of terrorism. the 150 students killed in garissa are also reminiscent of the 150 students killed in peshawar, pakistan in december 2014. there is no discrimination, but it should be noted that islamist terrorist groups are now targeting christian minorities in particular. from this point of view, our response must also be adapted to this specificity. we must, in agreements with third countries fighting terrorism, fully integrate this dimension of persecution of christian minorities and provide for some form of conditionality in our aid to countries which must engage with us in the fight against islamist terrorism.
madam president, i think it is indeed essential, as has been said today, that the european parliament should live up to its responsibilities. we cannot say - and this is a historical fact - that europe has christian foundations and at the same time be indifferent to what is happening in the world. it is also a real geostrategic problem. it is clear that there is a desire today by some groups to create a kind of religious unity in some states. and that is a real danger. the day you have mono-religious states, it's obvious that these states are going to create situations of tension with neighboring states. so there is a risk of a general war. so we have a problem that is geostrategic, philosophical, political and humanitarian at the same time. it is up to europe, which wants to be the champion of tolerance and agreement between peoples, to act to enable the recognition and respect of each other. we have a duty to the christians of kenya, but more broadly to all the christians who constitute persecuted minorities, to support them, not only in words but also in deeds. parliamentarians are not just talking, they are acting. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i think there are two or three types of action that are possible. the first type of action is directed at governments. it is obvious that we cannot replace the governments of these countries. on the other hand, we have a duty to engage in dialogue, even a somewhat firm discussion with them, to show them that it is never in their interest to allow a monotheistic system to take hold. secondly, we also have a duty of conviction and a duty of education to do to teach these countries what tolerance is.
madam president, commissioner, we witnessed with horror the murder of 147 students by the shabab in early april. one question is the reaction of the kenyan security forces. the press was already on the scene a few minutes after the bombing, while it took several hours for the kenyan army to arrive on the scene. so i will ask a pragmatic question. it is important that we as european parliamentarians ask the right questions. europe already has a security role in the region. we have a csdp mission in kenya to combat piracy, and we also have an eutm mission in somalia, where we are training the somali national army. my question, commissioner, is this: do you not think it is appropriate to consider a regional strategy in the horn of africa and, in particular, to extend the mandate of eutm somalia to become a regional training mission against terrorists?
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 30 april 2015, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 162) _bar_ see minutes
in writing. persecution of religious minorities, especially christians, has increased dramatically in recent months. following the horrific massacre at garissa university in kenya, the pope denounced "the indifference" of the international community to the "jihadist fury" that christians are suffering worldwide. we are witnessing a real campaign of ethnic and religious cleansing. iraq and syria are losing more and more of their christian communities every day, forced to flee violence and obscurantism. furthermore, the hotbeds of hatred and intolerance are increasing throughout the region and the world. today, the european union has a duty to help these populations and to fight relentlessly against these jihadist, terrorist and barbaric movements. if we europeans do not defend the christians of the east and the world, who will? it is a matter of defending our values, our principles and the foundations of our civilization.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- question with request for an oral answer to the council on the destruction of cultural sites by the islamic state group by silvia costa, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-000031/2015 - b8-0115/2015), and- question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the destruction of cultural sites by the islamic state group by silvia costa, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-000031/2015 - b8-0116/2015)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i of course share the concerns of my colleagues on the committee on culture, but i regret that the question is confined to the islamic state group. the cultural disasters caused by these terrorists are immense and terrible, whether in syria, iraq or tunisia or libya. but then why not cover up similar abuses by other islamist terrorist groups in syria? the ancient st. simeon the stylite church was not destroyed by the islamic state, but by ahrar al-sham, a salafist group supported by saudi arabia and a member of the islamic front, and by junud al-sham, a chechen group supported by turkey. the 15,000 pieces in the idlib museum were not looted by the islamic state, but by the al-nusra front, the syrian branch of al-qaeda, which mr. fabius said a short while ago, and i quote, was doing a good job on the ground in syria. it is more than urgent to ask turkey, saudi arabia and qatar - our allies - to stop supporting terrorist groups, just as it is imperative that the eu member states stop playing a double game and finally decide to fight effectively against... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, in recent months we have seen the destruction by the islamic state of priceless works of the historical heritage of nations and of humanity. looking at these shocking images of statue demolition, one cannot help but think, indeed, of the giant buddhas of bamiyan, afghanistan, or the mausoleums of timbuktu. in the face of such a destructive madness, the predatory systems organized - remember - in the 2000s by the us occupation authorities in iraq, starting with the looting of the baghdad museum, would almost appear as a lesser evil. what is common to all totalitarianisms - from the terror during the french revolution, and its immense damage to the french christian heritage, to bolshevism in russia, which left almost no church standing, to the maoist cultural revolution in china, the taliban in afghanistan or the "islamic state" group in iraq and syria - is this same blind faith in the new, uprooted man, the product of a religious law or an ideological system, torn from historical times. totalitarianism always begins with the distortion of history, before moving on to the outright elimination of history.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, from their illyrian ancestors to the writer ismail kadaré and the heroic skanderberg fighter against the turkish invaders, the albanians are certainly a great people. but, apart from the problems of widespread corruption and organised crime which have plagued albania for so many years, how can you continue negotiations with this country, whose prime minister has recently expressed his wish for a greater albania, with the accession of kosovo? this statement was made by edi rama in the presence of mr. hashim thaçi, former head of the terrorist organization kla. i would remind you that the independence of kosovo, the historic cradle of the serbian nation, is still not, and rightly so, recognised by five countries of the european union: cyprus, spain, greece, romania and slovakia. the commission and parliament have indeed condemned this new provocation by mr rama, which is likely to have a detrimental effect on the cohesion of the neighbouring countries, starting with macedonia and montenegro, but mr rama has made it clear that he has nothing to do with these condemnations. why then insist on continuing negotiations with albania?
madam president, despite being a potential candidate for accession to the european union since june 2003 and despite the association and stabilisation agreements of june 2008, the situation in bosnia and herzegovina is more than worrying. following a meeting of the un security council in 2013, the finding corroborated by the european union monitoring reports , is without appeal. the lack of progress in implementing political and economic reforms, the repeated use of separatist rhetoric and the deep divisions between political parties are all factors that are counter to the efforts of those who would like to see bosnia and herzegovina become a stable and viable state. moreover, twenty years after the outbreak of the war in that region, national minorities are still excluded from any participation in national politics. this discrimination is a direct consequence of the 1995 bosnian constitution, which was drafted with the complicity of the united states and the european union. finally, bosnia and herzegovina has made little progress in the fight against corruption, which remains a major problem and is endemic in many areas of the public and private sectors, as well as organised crime. the country remains a source of arms and ammunition for criminal groups in the union.
madam president, this report on bosnia-herzegovina is part of the logic of forced enlargement. unfortunately, it does not take account of the political and economic reality of bosnia-herzegovina. mr preda and his atlanticist friends want to integrate into the european union a country where 45% of the population is unemployed, where a third of the population works in the public administration, a country where 300 citizens are fighting the jihad in syria and which yesterday was the scene of another islamist attack in zvornik, which hit the serb minority. this serb minority is, it must be said, particularly affected by the political and economic instability in the country. can we be moral when this house voted to suspend trade preferences to bosnia-herzegovina just after the country was hit by tragic floods? it's time to give up the illusions. it is time to stop saying anything like mr preda, who confuses islam, islamism and russia, and to work towards interstate cooperation that will change things for the people of bosnia and herzegovina in a positive way, which is what we all want here. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, mr preda, first of all we are fighting for an independent europe, which you are not. we want a strong and independent europe for the peoples of europe. of course bosnia-herzegovina, in a europe of free states, would have its place. but not in your plan for this country, which was started in dayton. as for the insult you are making to me by saying that my capital would be moscow, i remind you that my party fought against communism, like you, against sovietism, and that we, french gaullists, have a vision of france's independence freely associated with russia in the framework of a strategic partnership, which does not take away anything from the possibility of working with our american friends.
in writing. the marrakesh treaty was adopted on 27 june 2013 by the diplomatic conference for the conclusion of a treaty to facilitate access to printed works by visually impaired and persons with reading difficulties. this is a great step forward for the rights of the blind. it will enable them (if the treaty enters into force and their state ratifies it) to convert a book free of charge into a format that is more accessible to them. the adaptation may also be carried out by an organisation acting on their behalf (the so-called authorised entities). however, attention should be paid in particular to the risk of increased circulation of digitised works, since the treaty does not mention the format in which the paper work can be transformed (risk in the case of audio recordings, for example). although it has its shortcomings and risks, this treaty is a step forward for the rights of the visually impaired, but i am not convinced that the european union should be able to adopt it as a supranational institution. it is up to the member states of the union to have it adopted by their national parliaments.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by ernest urtasun, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report 2013 of the european investment bank (2014/2156 (ini)) (a80057/2015). i would like to welcome mr werner hoyer, president of the european investment bank.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis in europe is serious and requires an ambitious response. since 2007, public investment has fallen by more than 18%, which has a very negative impact on the economic dynamism of the union countries. the 37% increase in eib financing activities is to be welcomed, but several problems remain. firstly, the report proposes that priority be given to projects with european added value. as you are aware, many investments do not necessarily have a european dimension. this priority criterion may therefore complicate access to eib financing for many smes, smes and local and regional authorities. moreover, at a time when french and european companies are facing increasing difficulties in obtaining financing, the eib granted eur 8 billion in loans for projects located outside the european union in 2013. the eib must establish european priority in the provision of financial instruments.
madam president, the debate on the european investment bank plunges us into the heart of the political and economic schizophrenia of the european union. on the one hand, we rightly deplore, in the bank's annual report, a collapse in private and public investment of around 27% since 2009, and on the other hand, the european institutions continue to advocate, report after report, an austerity policy in the name of the euro - the sacred cow of brussels - a policy that we know perfectly well is killing investment and hindering the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. the european investment bank, to be effective, must operate in a completely new economic environment where the european union and its policies no longer have a place. there will be no sustainable investment if the european union sticks to a policy that has deindustrialised the continent and demoralized entrepreneurs. in addition, the system of allocation of investment by the eib seems to us to be very inadequate, since it leaves almost no room for manoeuvre to the member states, which are the best placed to determine the suitability of projects. the juncker plan, for example, will retain only the most profitable projects for the benefit of a few large cities and agglomerations, largely to the detriment of rural areas and medium-sized cities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 30 april 2015, at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as with almost all the reports from this house, we are once again witnessing the compilation of wishful thinking, recitals and urgent requests. even if the world expo is of major interest, especially for italy, there is a very deep gap between the statements in this report and the policies actually pursued by the institutions of the european union. i will give just one example which makes all these claims moot: the determination of almost all european leaders to make the transatlantic trade and investment partnership a success. so your pious will to fight obesity and food imbalances, to defend family farming and food security is in complete contradiction to what is about to happen, namely gmos, cloned meat and hormone-treated beef, which the commission has long supported and wants to impose on us.
madam president, 'feeding the planet, energy for life' is the theme of the milan world fair, and i welcome it. a large proportion of the world's population still does not have enough to eat. one billion people are hungry and three billion are malnourished. beyond ensuring that all europeans have access to healthy, quality food, accessible to all and meeting sustainability challenges, the european union must contribute to the food balances of the rest of the world. but not just any way: by developing a more ambitious cooperation policy and by supporting the proliferation of small farms. all the peoples of the world must feed themselves, that's my vision. the fight against food waste must also be one of our major objectives. we must collectively find ways of regulating markets to respond to the problem of price volatility. i would add that financial speculation in agricultural commodities must be firmly combated, because the situation is no longer tolerable. these are, in my view, the challenges of the milan world fair.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we are facing today is not a simple disease: it is a plant pest that is coming to europe! at present, there is no treatment available, either for insects or for treating the trees. we are in an absolutely dramatic situation. today, in europe, we are dealing with only one strain: xylella pauca. there are three others that, if they reach our continent, will cause even greater catastrophe. they will affect citrus, grapes and many other species, more than 309 in all. the first step is to extend the entry bans to products from all areas where strains of the genus xylella are present. i am thinking not only of central america, but also of florida, california and mexico. we must impose a quarantine on all products from these areas. secondly, the measures adopted today do not provide for support for small producers. in puglia, for example, the average area is 1.5 hectares. i call for the immediate mobilisation of the crisis reserve to help small producers. we also call for a total ban on the export of any plants at risk from the infested zone, without any possibility of circumvention. the territories - be it spain, greece or france - and the islands such as corsica, sicily and sardinia - must be protected. if they're not protected, it's over. morocco has already banned the importation of all plants from italy into its territory. finally, we must plan for the future now, i.e. allow the construction of double-closed greenhouses so that the plants are grown inside, without the possibility of insect attacks. these measures are not in the text. we have to go further. this is a european health emergency!
madam president, this dramatic crisis, which particularly affects olive trees in italy but can also affect oak and chestnut trees, is of course endangering local crops. two different problems arise. first, to find the scientific solution to stop this epidemic, which is not easy. secondly, we must take strong decisions and apply a form of protectionism to prohibit the importation of plants which are not needed. the rule of your economic system, which is deadly in this case, is free trade. when france tried to enforce protective measures by banning plants from the infested areas, it was accused of violating the rules of free movement of goods. the crisis thus highlights the contradictions of european policy and of course proves the need for strict protection rules. it also adds weight to the criticisms of our industrial model, which tends to homogenize crops. a bacterium does indeed slaughter in genetically homogeneous cultures as a virus can do in factory farms. in any event, this case should prompt the commission to think about the genetic diversification of crops, but also of livestock farms.
madam president, commissioner, after the shark on fisheries, after the fco on sheep and cattle, we are now faced with a new scourge, the consequence of the facilitation of trade on our planet. and unfortunately, as in previous cases, it took a very long time for the commission departments and the agencies concerned to take stock of the problem. the measures announced a few hours ago will obviously not be sufficient because they do not actually isolate the infected area. we saw, last week in paris, coffee plants arriving with the bacteria. what we need to do, beyond the measures that have been adopted, is to put in place a real research programme coordinated at european level, in order to find a solution as soon as possible. if the fco had not had the vaccination a few years ago, the entire european herd would have been decimated. so we need more progress in the research world, more collaboration between researchers to find a solution. europe must encourage this research. of course, it must also help the producers concerned, today in italy, but unfortunately perhaps tomorrow elsewhere in europe, because we have been too late in isolating the perimeter of the disease.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this problem is truly a historic threat, affecting a great many plant species. it is also an ecological threat (in view of the number of species involved), economic (small farms, as well as larger ones, which grow vines, olive trees, etc., are affected) and social. what can you do about it? you mean the slaughter. take the drôme, for example, where the shark was spotted, as mentioned earlier. the disease was killed off, but it did not stop the disease from destroying all the peach and apricot trees because it exceeded the sanitary limits established for the affected species. we need to take much more drastic measures. we know the disease comes from brazil and central america. we also know that north america is affected, particularly california and florida. draconian controls with quarantines must be introduced to control these products. as far as research is concerned, it is absolutely necessary to have the means. i'm thinking of phage therapy, for example, which could be used to fight bacteria.
madam president, commissioner, the xylella fastidiosa bacterium, which is destroying the olive trees in southern italy, can affect - and this has been said - more than 300 plant species, particularly vines, as in california in the 1990s. you know that. the consequences of this health episode can be catastrophic. however, since october 2013, when the bacterium was discovered in the puglia region, the few measures taken by the union have proved insufficient. a year ago, in this parliament, when we were debating the revision of the plant protection regulations, i denounced the shortcomings of the controls and proposed that changes be made to this control strategy. i regret today that the commission has neither heard nor listened to me and that it has never dared to change the current system of controls, which is proving ineffective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the controls are carried out in a timely manner, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. european producers of olive oil from the mediterranean arc are now facing the threat of the olive tree killer bacterium, xylella fastidiosa. the latter has already caused havoc in italy in 2013 (puglia) leading to the felling of tens of thousands of olive trees and also to the fall of surrounding plants. there is currently no treatment for xylella fastidiosa and its rapid spread via other species is a concern for the agricultural world. the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed (paff) indicated that it wished to strengthen the preventive measures against the bacterium in order to prevent its spread. the total ban on the import of coffee plants from honduras and costa rica (three infected plants discovered last april in rungis) is a good thing, but it is regrettable that the commission did not wish to extend the bans to other plants (more than 200 species) originating in third countries where the presence of the bacterium has been confirmed (brazil, the united states, etc.). corsica is considering banning the introduction of plants. this measure will be effective if the number of derogations does not explode. this shows the economic and ecological damage caused by the globalisation and ultra-liberalism promoted by brussels.
in writing. ‒ alcohol consumption habits and trends vary considerably across europe, particularly for health-risk consumption. in order to deal with alcohol-related harm, i support the european strategy which has already produced positive results. we must renew it and at the same time improve its efficiency. by providing better information and appropriate education, this strategy should encourage moderate and responsible drinking and, above all, warn against excessive and dangerous drinking. i do not think that statements on calories, ingredients and nutritional value of products, such as a mandatory minimum price, can be effective and sufficiently dissuasive tools to combat such excesses, especially in the southern countries of the european union, where alcohol consumption has been declining for several years, mainly due to moderate consumption of alcohol, based mainly on quality products such as wine. for these reasons i supported the promotion of moderate and responsible consumption of wines and i voted against the amendments on labelling.
in writing. ‒ the amendments adopted are intended to take account of local realities, which are the most important factor in dealing with alcohol, in the sense that it must be dealt with in the light of cultural particularities. in this i voted for the promotion of the know-how of local artisans, for the fight against unfair competition, for greater visibility of their interests. the proposed amendments also stress the need to take account of health considerations as a matter of priority. the point is not to deny the harm that alcohol-based products can cause, but to strike a balance between denouncing them and promoting healthier lifestyles. finally, it should be recalled that this area of competence must be protected from interference by supranational institutions in the local economic policy of the states and remain under the strict and exclusive competence of the latter to conduct a national policy in the direction of their interests. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ it is with dismay that i observe that we are once again trying to follow the hygiene of the united states, a country where the consumption of alcohol is generally prohibited for those under 21 years of age... and where at the same time the sad fashion of "binge drinking" has developed. in addition to seeking to impose legislation on member states in an area outside the eu's competence, this 'strategy' offers no counterpart to guarantee the protection of traditional farms and productions. it is the latter that should be defended against counterfeiting.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy follows a question with an oral reply to the commission. such a proposal is open to criticism, since such a framework of recommendations will justify more concrete measures which will then have to be applied to all states, despite their cultural differences, particularly in food and alcohol consumption. although it is obvious that the fight against alcohol abuse, against the tendency towards alcoholism and for the protection of young people are laudable causes, it must not be forgotten that this text is similar to an interference in private affairs. the proposal does not address the fight against the trafficking of counterfeit alcohol, nor does it propose anything to guarantee the protection of traditional farms and production. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution calling on the european commission to develop a strategy on the prevention of alcohol-related harm. alcohol policies are mainly a matter for member states, given the cultural and territorial differences in this area. however, a coordinated european strategy is needed to reduce the harm caused by excessive alcohol consumption. we must increase awareness campaigns on the dangers of alcohol for drivers and pregnant women. young people also need to be made more aware of its dangerous effects. i am therefore in favour of the introduction of an 18 year age limit for drinking throughout the european union and of a ban on the use of public money for the promotion of alcoholic beverages.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy because it misses the real issues in this area, while advocating an expansion of the eu's powers. the amendments which sought to ensure that the interests of undertakings were respected and that unfair competition in this sector was prevented were rejected, despite their sound reasoning. the resolution also calls for a european strategy on alcohol, refusing to take account of the cultural differences between member states. the french national front's patriotic members of parliament had, however, tried to remind the envi committee that french gastronomy - including alcohol - is part of unesco's intangible heritage; but the other members, including the other french members, refused to take this into account. moreover, if the fight against alcoholism is a worthy objective, it must remain a matter for the member states. finally, no proposal is made in the resolution to strengthen border controls to combat the trafficking of counterfeit alcohol.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the issues relating to the effects of alcohol abuse on society are taken into account in national public policies and in european legislation. the european parliament's call for this resolution is therefore justified. it is vital, however, to avoid conflating drinking with alcohol abuse. the latter must be combated through effective prevention and treatment policies targeted primarily at vulnerable populations. however, the consumption of alcohol, when it is moderate, cannot be considered a social problem. it is, on the contrary, a reflection of the cultural habits and gastronomic heritage that make our regions and europe so rich. i could not therefore support all the amendments tabled in plenary, but i supported the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution, it is crucial to fight against the excessive consumption of alcohol, which is responsible for many deaths. the emphasis on prevention and education, especially among young people, is very good. i am pleased to see that the notions of responsible consumption and culture have been retained. the moderate consumption of alcohol is part of our heritage and we must protect it because our skills and jobs are at stake. i am also pleased that the importance of taking into account the consequences for smes and small-scale production of labelling and information requirements on ingredients and nutritional content has been incorporated into the text. i do regret the introduction of the calorie labelling on the bottles. the calorie labelling will not solve the problem of alcohol abuse which is the subject of the resolution and raises many questions in terms of applicability. finally, i wonder about the proposal to introduce a minimum price per unit of alcohol. the implementation of this proposal raises many questions and is likely to create unfair competition and problems of functioning within the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy. on the one hand, the proposed amendments are intended to take account of local realities, which are the most important factor in dealing with the question of alcohol, in the sense that it must be dealt with in the light of cultural peculiarities. in this i voted for the promotion of the know-how of local artisans, for the fight against unfair competition, for greater visibility of their interests. the amendments also stress the need to take account of health reasons as a matter of priority. the point is not to deny the harm that alcohol-based products can cause, but to strike a balance between denouncing them and promoting healthier lifestyles. finally, it should be recalled that this area of competence must be protected from interference by supranational institutions in the local economic policy of the states and remain under the strict and exclusive competence of the latter to conduct a national policy in the direction of their interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling for a new alcohol strategy. initially very hygienic and directive, the final proposal proved rather protective for french producers. it included amendments on three main points: the recognition and protection of designations of origin, the fight against unfair competition and prohibited practices in french production, and finally the need to adapt the regulations to smes and artisans. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. the fight against alcohol abuse is still a matter for the member states, provided that the commitments made by the commission in the framework of the transatlantic treaty do not completely destroy our wine and beer sectors. this resolution will therefore not result in a legislative proposal from the commission. i would, however, expect the commission to tackle products which are really dangerous to health, which citizens consume without even having the right to be informed: pesticides, gmos, meat from animals slaughtered without being stunned. if the european commission wants to defend our health, this is where it must start.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 29 april, i voted in favour of the new eu alcohol strategy to reduce the harm caused by excessive and dangerous drinking. i have always thought it important that awareness-raising measures on the dangers of excessive alcohol consumption, particularly to empower adolescents, but also pregnant women, be developed in the countries of the union. i truly believe that a well-adapted and targeted pedagogy can lead to tangible results. however, we must distinguish between the consumption of alcohol as such and alcohol abuse, which must be reported as a matter of priority. that is why i did not want to impose on wine growers a calorie labelling which would have added burdens and created additional bureaucracy. it is about protecting our culture and heritage. the whole point is to balance responsibility, pleasure and public health.
in writing. ‒ alcohol consumption can be dangerous to yourself and others if you do not know your limits. therefore, moderate drinking education is necessary to combat the direct (disease) and indirect (accident) harmful consequences of alcohol abuse. europe needs an alcohol strategy to prevent the excesses and abuses that are found in all countries. it's a necessity. however, we should not overlook the pleasure of tasting and should not forget the know-how of the producers, artisans and businesses, who, through practices inherited from generation to generation, maintain a rich cultural heritage and contribute to the influence of france and europe in the world. the european parliament's resolution succeeds in striking that balance between prevention, which is essential, and the recognition of the continent's assets, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy. on the one hand, the proposed amendments are intended to take account of local realities, which are the most important factor in dealing with the question of alcohol, in the sense that it must be dealt with in the light of cultural peculiarities. in this i voted for the promotion of the know-how of local artisans, for the fight against unfair competition, for greater visibility of their interests. the amendments also stress the need to take account of health reasons as a matter of priority. the point is not to deny the harm that alcohol-based products can cause, but to strike a balance between denouncing them and promoting healthier lifestyles. finally, it should be recalled that this area of competence must be protected from interference by supranational institutions in the local economic policy of the states and remain under the strict and exclusive competence of the latter to conduct a national policy in the direction of their interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the alcohol strategy which aims to show the committee what is working in the existing strategy and what needs to be improved. the fight against alcoholism remains a major battle for the european union. that resolution was adopted, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu alcohol strategy. the aim of this strategy is to reduce alcohol abuse, a public health problem which unfortunately affects an increasingly young population. alcohol is also part of the gastronomic and cultural heritage of the member states and this key aspect has been retained in the text. in adopting this resolution, we called for the eu alcohol strategy to focus on underage drinking and on labelling at european level to discourage drinking while driving and during pregnancy.
in writing. ‒ excessive alcohol consumption poses risks to public health. the text considers alcohol to be the source of all the ills afflicting europe: cancer, obesity, neuro-psychiatric disorders ... yet i observe that cancer rates have been exploding since the 1960's even as alcohol consumption continues to decline. so it's good that alcohol can't be the only cause. the mass poisoning of our food by the agribusiness with its train of pesticides and fertilizers is part of it. so is the addictive use of sugars and salts in the obesity epidemic. to point to alcohol as the cause of epidemics and ills due to the methods of the productivist economy is the height of hypocrisy. a european strategy on alcohol is necessary but not in these terms. i'm not going to.
in writing. the motion for a resolution on the alcohol strategy is not without its critics. it follows a question with a request for an oral reply to the commission. this proposal, if implemented, would clarify the measures on alcohol which would be required in all member states, despite the cultural and dietary differences between the various countries of the european union. in addition to interfering in the affairs of the member states, the text also interferes in matters of the private sphere. the justifications put forward, such as the fight against alcohol abuse, the tendency towards alcoholism and the protection of young people, which are laudable causes, are not of a nature sufficient to violate the respect for privacy. nothing is said about the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting of alcohol, or about how to guarantee the protection of traditional farms and production. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the eu alcohol strategy. i voted for the amendments which clearly distinguish between responsible and cultural drinking, which is compatible with a healthy lifestyle, and alcoholism, which is responsible for too many deaths, both from the diseases it causes and from the acts of violence it causes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, of which i was a co-rapporteur, which calls on the european commission to renew its european alcohol strategy and contains a number of positive points. i wished that this resolution would be seen in the light of public health and could bring more coherence to the action of the member states in their measures to combat alcoholism. this includes the problems of alcohol consumption by young people, the dangers of alcohol during pregnancy, and the proper labelling of drinks with clear indications of their contents.
in writing. if amendments nos 1, 4 and 8 had been adopted (respect for the interests of undertakings, geographical indications and the fight against unfair competition), i might have considered accepting this text. as not all of them have been adopted, i cannot vote in favour of the final text and therefore i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 29 april, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the european alcohol strategy. i voted in favour of this resolution which takes stock of the current strategy and points out the necessary improvements. if i am to combat the sometimes irreparable damage caused by alcohol to our populations, i believe that we will be able to gain ground, particularly with young people, in terms of prevention. sometimes that resolution goes too far. it advocates ways of doing things which will undermine the competitiveness of our smes and the wine world. i have, for example, opposed the introduction of a minimum price for alcohol, even though a majority of members were in favour of it. however, while this resolution is objectionable, it is not binding, which still leaves a certain margin of manoeuvre to our winegrowers and our companies in the sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which focuses on prevention and education in alcohol consumption, including the need for responsible drinking. the text also stresses the importance, in view of the commission's future proposal, of taking into account the consequences for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and small-scale production of labelling and information requirements on ingredients and nutritional content. finally, it is crucial to continue the fight against alcohol abuse, which is responsible for many deaths and whose direct and indirect social cost is estimated at eur 155.8 billion in europe for the year 2010.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution also seeks to recommend a framework to combat alcohol abuse, alcoholism and the protection of young people. but this is not within the union's competence and could amount to an intrusion into private affairs. there are no real solid proposals to encourage border controls to curb the trafficking of counterfeit alcohol or proposals for guarantees to protect traditional holdings and production. i vote against.
in writing. the world health organisation is concerned about the increase in alcohol consumption and the number of deaths it causes. 3.3 million people died due to harmful use of alcohol in 2012. alcohol is estimated to be responsible for 5.9 percent of all deaths worldwide, and more than 200 diseases are linked to alcohol consumption. the resolution calls on the member states to: launch information campaigns on the risks of harmful use of alcohol; strengthen information and labelling; and regulate advertising, particularly for young people. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, even though the main purpose is to monitor the progress of the member states in this area. i would even say that it is time because i have always been appalled by the difference in treatment between the fight against smoking and the fight against alcoholism, the considerable social damage of the latter, especially in terms of accidents and violence, seemingly completely absent from most policy-makers.
in writing. ‒ sad anniversary of the rana plaza collapse: 1138 workers killed, several thousand injured, and in the rubble, labels of major european brands... these bangladeshis were overworked and worked in unsafe conditions to provide cheap clothing to the rest of the world. today, justice has still not been done. millions of dollars are missing from the victims' compensation fund and their families. and much remains to be done to ensure decent working conditions. europe must draw on existing national initiatives. the french national assembly has adopted a groundbreaking bill that requires transnational companies to have a vigilance plan for their subsidiaries and subcontractors to prevent human rights and environmental abuses, fight corruption and repair damage to victims. in other lands the same thinking is at work. this is the beginning of a movement which the european union has the capacity and the duty to amplify. the message from parliament is clear. we call for concrete and binding measures to hold companies accountable by legislating for a duty of vigilance and an obligation to trace and transparently supply the chain.
in writing. ‒ following the collapse of the rana plaza building in bangladesh, which killed 1100 people and injured 2500 others, this proposal aims to update the sustainability pact launched by the government of bangladesh, the ilo and the commission on 8 july 2013. the pact aims to improve the health, safety and working conditions of workers in the ready-to-wear sector. the proposal denounces the exploitation of low-cost labour by large organisations in the textile sector. and although the european initiative for responsible supply chain management in the ready-to-wear sector is likely to parasitize national initiatives, efforts to improve the defence of workers' freedoms seem to me to be paramount. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ does the eu not share responsibility for the rana plaza tragedy? has it not encouraged the exploitation of cheap labour in third countries, while its rejection of all protectionism has ruined our own textile industry?
in writing. european parliament commemorates the collapse of the rana plaza building in bangladesh on 24 april 2013. the quake killed at least 1,127 people and injured 2,500. this tragedy has become the symbol of this mad globalization and the pursuit of profit at any cost. he showed the conditions under which our cheap imported clothes are made and the deplorable working conditions in the textile industry. the collapse of this building and the number of victims are obviously deplorable, but it is high time that the union stopped covering its face with good feelings and angelic resolutions, even though it is partly responsible for this type of situation by having promoted global free trade and rejected intelligent protectionism to put pressure on countries that do not respect social, environmental and fiscal standards. nevertheless, in view of this tragedy, i voted in favour of this text and the sustainability pact.
in writing. i voted for the declaration on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse. the disastrous consequences of a deadly globalisation, in particular the shameful exploitation of a cheap labour force, must be denounced. this building in the suburbs of dhaka, the capital of bangladesh, housed several garment workshops working for various international clothing brands. as a full member of the delegation for relations with south asia, i am particularly sensitive to this issue. last march, the vice-chairman of the subcommittee on human rights presented to us the report of a recent study visit to bangladesh. the responsibility of european industrialists in this sector in bangladesh was particularly emphasized.
in writing. ‒ bangladesh is one of the world's largest textile exporters. to cope with global competition in the ready-to-wear sector, the major exporting countries tend to reduce the quality of work for their employees both in terms of safety and health and in terms of wages. the rana plaza fire is evidence of that claim. safety and fire regulations were not followed, which inevitably led to this tragedy. now, two years later, the situation in bangladesh has changed dramatically. some measures have been put in place through the sustainability pact to improve the working conditions of employees in textile companies. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which commemorates the collapse of the rana plaza building and takes stock of the progress of the sustainability pact. it was important to pay tribute to the 1,100 dead and 2,500 injured in the tragedy of april 24, 2013, when the eight-story rana plaza building in savar town on the outskirts of dhaka, which housed several garment workshops, collapsed. a real industrial and human catastrophe for bangladesh, this dramatic event also reminds us of the need to take action on the textile industry: to adopt a mandatory clause on corporate social responsibility in all eu agreements, to fight against the exploitation of low-cost labour which remains in a situation of great social and economic precariousness, as much effort as the eu should make, it is always so quick to give lessons of morality to everyone.
in writing. ‒ following the collapse of the rana plaza building in bangladesh, which killed 1100 people and injured 2500 others, this proposal aims to update the sustainability pact launched by the government of bangladesh, the ilo and the commission on 8 july 2013. the pact aims to improve the health, safety and working conditions of workers in the ready-to-wear sector. the proposal denounces the exploitation of low-cost labour by large organisations in the textile sector. and although the european initiative for responsible supply chain management in the ready-to-wear sector is likely to parasitize national initiatives, efforts to improve the defence of workers' freedoms seem to me to be paramount. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution in support of human rights in bangladesh, recalling the sad event of rana plaza. two years ago, over 3,000 women textile workers in bangladesh were victims of financial cynicism and the race to globalize. by means of relocations, international institutions such as the wto, the european commission and the european parliament are helping to transform entire countries into outsourcing centres, under conditions that emile zola himself would have recognised as being akin to slavery. "decarbonisation of the economy", "free trade agreements", all words that have only one objective: more profits for a few transnational companies. the decisions of the union lead to unemployment and misery here, but also there. the european union is as responsible as the contractors, who care little about working conditions as long as the price is always lower. let us truly pay tribute to these workers and to these bereaved families by regaining our production autonomy. it would also allow developing countries to focus on the needs of their people instead of being enslaved. respect for human rights there starts with us.
in writing. ‒ following the collapse of the rana plaza building in bangladesh, which killed 1100 people and injured 2500 others, this proposal aims to update the sustainability pact launched by the government of bangladesh, the ilo and the commission on 8 july 2013. the pact aims to improve the health, safety and working conditions of workers in the ready-to-wear sector. the proposal denounces the exploitation of low-cost labour by large organisations in the textile sector. and although the european initiative for responsible supply chain management in the ready-to-wear sector is likely to parasitize national initiatives, efforts to improve the defence of workers' freedoms seem to me to be paramount. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution commemorating the second anniversary of the collapse of textile factories in bangladesh following fires. the deplorable working conditions in these factories had raised international outrage, leading the country to improve its fire safety legislation and companies operating these factories to pay compensation to the families of the victims of these fires. the resolution stresses, however, the importance of the way ahead to end the precarious social situation of bangladeshi workers. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the second anniversary resolution of the rana plaza building collapse looks at the state of play of the sustainability pact that followed. despite this disaster, which tragically demonstrated the terrible working conditions in the textile industry in developing countries, the commitments made by companies often remain at the stage of promises, whether on safety at work, wages, the right to collective action and the end of corruption. i therefore supported this text which reminds the main contractors of their commitments to improve labour rights and safety measures for their production and for that of their subcontractors, which calls for the introduction of a minimum wage to live in bangladesh, and the end of the corrupt systems of local authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it pays tribute to the 1200 workers in the textile sector who were killed in the rana plaza building collapse two years ago in the capital of bangladesh. the european union is partly to blame for this tragedy, however, because it encourages the ultra-liberalism and social dumping that are at the root of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it denounces the globalist organisation of the textile sector and its serious negative consequences. the fight against the exploitation of cheap labour, as it exists in some countries, is a necessity.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposes a state of play two years after the rana plaza collapse in bangladesh which left 1,100 dead and 2,500 injured in its ready-to-wear factories. she is particularly critical of the efforts still to be made by the government on working conditions and related workers' rights. it also denounces the lack of participation by large companies in the support fund set up for the victims of rana plaza. it calls for such funds to be made compulsory in future to ensure the substantial participation of companies such as benetton and mango. the text also denounces collusion and corruption between multinational corporations and local elected officials. but this resolution does not sufficiently criticize the union's trade policy and its system of generalised preferences. without solidarity protectionism, european smes cannot compete with european companies that pay their workers in bangladesh 60 euros a month and then export their products to europe at preferential rates. i am voting for this report, which is unusually critical of the european parliament, and which recognizes at least the responsibility of these european policies and enterprises.
in writing. european parliament commemorates the collapse of the rana plaza building in bangladesh on 24 april 2013. the latter caused at least 1,127 deaths. it was a nine-story textile workshop designed to accommodate only five workers. he supplied the big global brands. this tragedy has become the symbol of what some call a happy globalization. he showed us the conditions under which our cheap imported clothes were made. it also showed how the textile industry is trying to evade its responsibilities by holding back any improvement in social standards in bangladesh. the european parliament is here to deplore the consequences of globalised free trade, an absolute dogma which the european union continues to cherish. it is high time to propose, in addition to this 'sustainability pact for bangladesh', a sensible protectionism to put pressure on countries which do not respect certain standards and which play on social dumping. i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which pays tribute to the victims of the rana plaza collapse and the tazreen factory fire, which occurred in 2013 and 2012 on the outskirts of dhaka, bangladesh. the text recalls that neither the owners nor the managers of these factories were brought to justice, even though these textile production sites had been built illegally and did not meet any safety standards. more than a thousand people were killed and 2,500 injured in these tragedies.
in writing. the resolution calls for improvements in traceability in the textile sector so that tragedies comparable to the rana plaza building collapse do not happen again. the conditions under which textiles are produced must be controlled, because the industry often exploits poor workers in countries with low social protection to cut costs. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution on wednesday 29 april to commemorate the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse in bangladesh and to take a position on the state of play of the sustainability pact. i voted in favour of this text, which welcomes the progress made by bangladesh and the international organizations. however, the resolution also stresses the need for further progress to improve the safety and health conditions in the sectors concerned and recommends certain measures.
in writing. ‒ two years after the rana plaza building collapse in bangladesh, which killed 1 100 people and injured more than 2 500, this report takes stock of the current situation. the european union, in cooperation with the government of bangladesh, the united states and the ilo, launched the sustainability compact on 8 july 2013, in which bangladesh committed to take action to improve standards and working conditions in the ready-to-wear sector. progress has been made with the adoption of a new law strengthening labour law and freedom of association and the recruitment and training of labour inspectors. in parallel, two private initiatives, accord and alliance, have evaluated more than 2000 ready-to-wear factories and helped close more than 30 factories deemed too dangerous. however, we are still far from the objectives set out in the sustainability pact and it is essential that bangladesh continues its work on labour law reform and that the european union and businesses maintain their commitment; i have therefore supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the second anniversary of the rana plaza collapse in bangladesh, which killed 1,100 people and injured 2,500, was an opportunity for the european parliament to take stock of the situation in the textile industry in that country. bangladesh is the world's largest clothing exporter after china but also one of the countries with the lowest wages. i voted in favour of this resolution which puts labour law at the forefront of key ilo conventions. moreover, despite all the efforts of the european right, the european parliament has adopted the amendments tabled by my group, which specifically name european companies such as mango, matalan and inditex, which, in denial of their responsibility, have refused to pay the victims' compensation funds, even though the sum of usd 3 million is still missing. finally, although it does not have legislative scope, the resolution takes a step towards corporate accountability by calling for the creation of mandatory corporate social responsibility clauses in bilateral trade and investment agreements concluded by the european union. a battle that is far from being won when you consider that the member states voted against the un resolution on the same subject last year.
in writing. ‒ this report, as a whole, falls under the yoke of nonsense and absurdity. we all know that mass immigration today is not good for the men who try it or for those who welcome it. however, the council is persisting in this respect and is strengthening existing mechanisms which have been phased out, when it is a question of changing the paradigm. the council is based on two erroneous claims: the attractiveness of illegal immigration and the voluntary return of migrants who have arrived in the union. who will the council make believe that men and women who have travelled in unworthy conditions to reach the territory of the union will decide to leave voluntarily? in addition, the report constantly blames the member states, which would be subject to binding solidarity and would be required to set rates for the distribution of asylum seekers. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ of course i voted against this report, which is encouraging illegal immigration even more, with the dramatic consequences we are already experiencing. hell is paved with good intentions. it is urgent that a policy of firmness and deterrence be pursued: illegal immigrants must know and understand that there is nothing to be gained by risking their lives, because our countries have nothing to offer them. by no longer admitting any immigrants arriving illegally on its soil, australia achieved with the operation sovereign borders the figure of zero deaths at sea (trying to reach its coasts) in 2014, compared to several hundred in previous years. in the same year, lured by the promise of a fantastic european eldorado and also by rescue at sea in case of difficulties, 3 000 illegal immigrants tragically perished in the mediterranean. i therefore invite all french and european leaders to throw off their ideological blinders and ask themselves the question in good conscience: what is the most responsible and above all the most humane policy? australia's policy of firmness, or the european union's policy of openness and these hundreds of deaths in a few days?
in writing. the recent human tragedies are unfortunately the consequences of the eu's migration policy. bringing migrant boats to european shores by rescuing them encourages illegal immigration. the obstacles to the expulsion of illegal immigrants have increased, and only 1% of them are returned. the european union, by its laxity and by the multiplication of obstacles to the expulsion of illegal immigrants, is making itself an accomplice of the smugglers. instead, national borders should be restored, migrant ships allowed to return to their point of departure and the vacuum pumps of immigration, such as social welfare, should be abolished. for all these reasons, i voted against this report, which will not solve the situation in any way and will only allow our governments to have a clear conscience.
in writing. it is regrettable that the european council of 23 april was not made aware of the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and of immigration and asylum policies. the report is disappointing and does not address the real causes of the problem of mass immigration and islamist terrorism. these tragedies are partly due to the geopolitical chaos in the near and middle east, caused by the war-madness of some. the principle should be to return every illegal immigrant to his port of departure and to restore internal borders in europe. let us stop hiding our faces and take effective action against this immigration problem, which is being treated in a hypocritical manner. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ following the recent migrant shipwrecks in the mediterranean, the european parliament voted a resolution on european migration and asylum policies. this real tragedy led to the deaths of over 800 people, the european union must act swiftly and effectively. we cannot accept that such tragedies take place off our coast. the traffickers and smugglers are criminals who must be fought and condemned. that is the message that the european parliament must convey. i welcome, of course, the decision of the european council to increase the budget of the frontex external border agency. but that's not enough. we must coordinate national immigration policies and increase the resources of frontex even further. this will enable us to strengthen control of the external borders of the european union and prevent shipwrecks at sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which shows once again that for the modern west, doing politics is to exploit the emotion aroused by dramatic events to make the unacceptable acceptable to the european peoples. the report thus indecently uses the deaths of thousands of migrants in the mediterranean in recent months to advocate shameful measures and to avoid real solutions. the council's decision is therefore followed by the members of parliament who are in favour of the adoption of binding quotas for the distribution of asylum seekers - which is tantamount to forcing immigrants onto our territory - or who are in favour of a european immigration policy, even though the eu, through the failures of frontex and triton, has proved incapable of protecting our external borders. finally, out of ideological blindness, the report advocates an increase in legal immigration, which alone would be able to curb illegal immigration. in short, a completely dogmatic and unrealistic report which, if it really inspires the eu's position on immigration for the years to come, is leading the member states to disaster.
in writing. ‒ this resolution expresses the european parliament's emotion at the tragic loss of human lives in the mediterranean in recent months. the european parliament therefore calls on the european union and its member states to strengthen existing cooperation in the management of migration flows and the fight against trafficking and smuggling networks. whereas, in addition to the increase in the budget for this policy announced by the european council, it is necessary to consider genuine european coordination based on solidarity mechanisms between the southern states subject to strong migratory pressures and those less affected, for example through the frontex agency; i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 'tragedies in the mediterranean and asylum and immigration policies. what is happening in the mediterranean is a tragedy and it is our responsibility to act. to do this we must take action on: - the fight against smugglers and traffickers; - the strengthening of dialogue with source and transit countries; - the conditioning of development aid on genuine commitments to the restoration of the rule of law, the fight against corruption and good governance. and i welcome the fact that these aspects are in the resolution. i voted against the proposal for a mandatory distribution of asylum applications. france, whose services are already overloaded with applications, has no interest in being forced into a system that will leave it no margin of appreciation for the number of asylum seekers it wishes to receive. this subordination of the member states to the european commission will only result in longer processing times, which are already too long.
in writing. - the smugglers warn the italian navy to recover the boats. and parliament is about to triple the number of crossing points for smugglers: the european union is therefore complicit. to put an end to these tragedies and to illegal immigration, it is first of all important to allow the states to restore their borders and to implement a voluntary policy aimed at stopping the vacuum pumps and returning ships to their port of origin. this is an effective and humane policy. president juncker announced that he wanted to open the doors to prevent people from entering through the windows, and this without any european people having been consulted on this issue. this lack of democracy once again demonstrates the distance between the european technocrats and the people.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the european union's migration and asylum policies. i deplore the shameless exploitation of recent tragedies to facilitate, once again, human trafficking. instead of returning illegal immigrants to their countries of origin or to a safe third country, the europeans propose to facilitate asylum applications. instead, we should take a cue from australia, where illegal immigrants are systematically sent to three countries which have signed an agreement with australia: nauru, papua new guinea and cambodia. thanks to this policy, australia has significantly reduced the number of illegal migrants and there has not been a single migrant who has died at sea in the last 18 months. finally, illegal immigrants arriving by sea account for about 4% of all arrivals in europe: the majority of illegal arrivals, which take place by land or air, are therefore deliberately concealed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report of the extraordinary council meeting of 23 april 2015. this relationship is subject to the yoke of nonsense and absurdity. we all know that mass immigration today is not good for the men who try it or for those who welcome it. however, the council is persisting in this respect and is strengthening existing mechanisms which have been phased out, when it is a question of changing the paradigm. the council is based on two erroneous claims: the attractiveness of illegal immigration and the voluntary return of migrants who have arrived in the union. who will the council make believe that men and women who have travelled in unworthy conditions to reach the territory of the union will decide to leave voluntarily? in addition, the report constantly blames the member states, which would be subject to binding solidarity and would be required to set rates for the distribution of asylum seekers. i voted against this text which belittles reality, offers no solution to migrants or to the citizens of the european union and deprives the states of one of their most fundamental competences while endangering the social and national cohesion of the peoples of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution following the tragedies of migrants in the mediterranean and the proposals made by the european council that followed. the resolution underlines the council's responsiveness and supports the tripling of the resources allocated by the member states to operation triton, while calling for enhanced cooperation between countries in the management of asylum applications. the resolution also calls on the member states to cooperate more closely with the frontex agency and to fight more vigorously against trafficking in human beings and against smugglers who exploit the most vulnerable people. this report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean and eu migration and asylum policies we therefore wished to recall that, while it is necessary to step up the fight against traffickers in other human beings and smuggling networks, the eu and its member states also have a duty to ensure a humanitarian mission in the mediterranean by strengthening search and rescue operations and assistance to victims of human trafficking. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling for the establishment of a common asylum policy for the 28 member states through the establishment of a binding solidarity mechanism and the strengthening of eu political and diplomatic action towards source and transit countries to stem the tide of human misery and despair that is throwing thousands of men, women and children onto the roads and in precarious ships, endangering their lives and their livelihoods. their lives.
in writing. i voted against this resolution, which unfortunately was adopted by an overwhelming majority, because it aims to increase the resources for rescuing migrant boats. it is thus a new immigration suction pump. i believe that a policy which respects the interests of the peoples of europe would consist rather, on the one hand, in drying up the sources of immigration by helping libya to prevent these boats from leaving and, on the other hand, in returning migrants to their point of departure, as australia is doing successfully.
in writing. - i voted against it. of course, we cannot be indifferent to the plight of the migrants who are currently trying to reach european shores. that said, even though the issue is difficult to resolve, the measures advocated by parliament are inadequate, as president schultz's recent statement shows. the priority of border control is not being given, parliament is providing for an increase in funds for rescue operations but nothing for the control of migration. there is no firm will to fight the smugglers. there is no reference to any policy of aid to the countries of origin or to any willingness to take action against those who promote such migration. the european union acts as if it wants to increase legal immigration to avoid illegality, which also poses problems of reception, integration, etc. parliament is not aware of the future consequences of its policy. even though the host countries are considered to be rich countries, they are faced with difficult economic situations (unemployment, etc.) which do not bode well for the integration of migrants. moreover, the european union imposes its policy on the member states.
in writing. ‒ 1,500 people have already died in the mediterranean since the beginning of the year, 700 remain 'missing'. it is high time that each state took up its responsibilities. the resolution contains good elements on asylum policy and refugees but attempts to use the emotion of the recent tragedy to push the idea of strengthening frontex. an eu agency that violates the most basic human rights of migrants and whose mandate is not to rescue migrants but to file and return them. it presents frontex's triton operation as the equivalent of italy's mare nostrum, an all-rescue operation with a budget three times the european one. finally, this resolution does not in any way question the root causes of migration: the european union's trade and agricultural policies in african countries are ruining local economies; its foreign policy, particularly in libya. and then there's the issue of climate migrants. these are the reasons why these people are forced to leave their homes. i abstain so as not to give the impression that i am opposed to something being done, even if what is proposed is quite inappropriate.
in writing. the recent tragedies in the mediterranean linked to mass immigration from africa have given rise to a vast act of hypocrisy on the part of the european union. on the one hand, we deplore the tragedies that have occurred, and on the other hand, we promote all the possible and imaginable appeals. this will result in a sustained flow of migrants and thus potentially lead to accidents. the war in libya, which is the cause of the increase in tragedies, has also not been affected. instead of implementing a courageous policy, as australia has done, by returning all illegal boats to their countries of origin, eu "figures" such as jean-claude juncker and martin schultz are calling for ever more immigration and ever less generosity for the citizens of european countries. as this resolution is largely pro-immigration and counterproductive, since it helps to increase the means used by the union in the fight against immigration, while amplifying the already existing air calls, i have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the recent tragedies in the mediterranean. more than 1,500 people have lost their lives at sea since the beginning of the year trying to reach europe illegally. italy is struggling to cope with this unprecedented wave of migration. the text welcomes the tripling of the resources allocated to the triton rescue operation. it also called on the union to step up the fight against smugglers and traffickers of human beings, who are the main culprits in shipwrecks. i voted for amendments opposing the allocation of asylum seekers by quotas between member states because the asylum systems of european countries are overloaded. in france, the cost of asylum is rising steadily to reach 2 billion euros a year. in addition, only 1% of rejected applicants are effectively returned to the border. 99% of them are therefore illegally and insecurely staying in france or in another schengen country. it is therefore preferable to give priority to the establishment of safe reception camps for refugees under the auspices of the un in the vicinity of their countries of origin rather than allowing them to risk their lives by making a perilous crossing of the mediterranean at the mercy of smugglers.
in writing. the only solution to avoid the tragedy of shipwrecks in the mediterranean is known: it is the strict policy applied by australia. we can always complain about the way this country treats migrants, but the fact remains that the european union does not treat them much better and causes the death of many more through its incoherent, ineffective and lax policies. the proposed text cannot provide any real solution to the major problem we are facing and i therefore vote against it, regretting that the european union is causing the death of so many unfortunates through its blindness.
in writing. ‒ following the recent tragic events off the coast of libya, which have left 800 migrants dead and many more missing, the european parliament expressed its sadness and regret at the inadequate responses to combat illegal immigration and to save the lives of these people. i voted in favour of this text and i support the need for a more organised, coordinated and united european response. we need to work with the countries of origin as well as transit countries because the majority of these migrants will not get asylum since they are economic migrants.
in writing. ‒ since the lampedusa tragedy, the european parliament has repeatedly stressed that without a strong european response, this situation would recur. yet, since the beginning of the year, more than 1 500 migrants and asylum seekers have died in the mediterranean. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat illegal immigration and to ensure that the eu is able to meet its obligations under international law. member states also have a responsibility to welcome more refugees and migrants by establishing safe and legal pathways to the european union. in this text, parliament advocates the establishment of a comprehensive and coherent migration policy, through a european humanitarian visa system and a mandatory resettlement programme. however, i do not agree with the imposition of a quota for the distribution of refugees. there is no need to set any numerical limits, because the number of refugees is constantly changing, as is their trajectory, and it cannot be quantified numerically, but it is much more ambitious. finally, the resolution reaffirms the need to strengthen the dialogue between the union and third countries, in particular libya, with a focus on human rights and democracy.
in writing. ‒ this report is to be rejected as it encourages immigration in several ways and does not propose any solution to deter smugglers and therefore potential immigration applicants. the human tragedy of such emigration is comparable to the events of the last days. but the solution is not to organize these artificial bridges between the african and european continents but to deter them. the report calls for this immigration to be 'facilitated', for the eu to set up quotas of migrants by country, for asylum applications (of all types) to be examined quickly and for residence permits to be granted more easily, regrets the lack of solidarity, even removes the reference to the fight against smugglers. the report even states that this immigration would not be illegal if it were legalized. i can't believe this. i am voting absolutely and resolutely against.
in writing. ‒ tragedy is happening in the mediterranean and it took 700 people to die in a single shipwreck to finally bring about an extraordinary meeting of the council. unfortunately, it was only the name that was extraordinary and the ngos denounced a council of shame. in the face of such cynicism, the gue/ngl asked the highest representatives of these two institutions, mr donald tusk and mr jean claude juncker, to come and explain themselves to the european parliament. the resolution adopted is a step in the right direction, even if it is still insufficient. yes, there is an urgent need to set up a european rescue operation at sea, to activate the directive on temporary protection, to implement the resettlement programmes for refugees. the resolution also calls for every effort to be made to identify the dead and the missing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. parliament, however, lacked the ambition to propose real solutions such as the establishment of legal channels. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ in 2009, the eu introduced exceptional trade measures for the balkan countries by regulation no 1215/2009. this regulation shall apply until 31 december 2015. since then, association agreements have been signed with all countries except bosnia and herzegovina and 'kosovo', whose self-proclaimed independence is not recognised by five eu member states. following the accession of croatia to the eu, there is a problem with the calculation of quotas set out in regulation 1215/2009, a problem linked to the reluctance of bosnia and herzegovina. the text calls on bosnia and herzegovina to play its part and to respect its commitments. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by establishing the list of the beneficiaries of the preferential trade measures. it is not surprising that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union and bosnia and herzegovina were invited to conclude an agreement on the adaptation of the interim agreement with the union, following the accession of croatia, in order to avoid the suspension of the preferences for bosnia and herzegovina as of 1 january 2016. the report considered it necessary to recall the continued progress made by the western balkan countries and territories concerned towards accession to the european union, as well as the union's unequivocal commitment to the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina, as recalled in the general affairs council conclusions of 15 december 2014. since croatia's accession to the union, there has been a problem with the calculation of the quotas laid down in regulation no 1215/2009, a problem linked to the reluctance of bosnia and herzegovina. the text calls on bosnia and herzegovina to play its part and to respect its commitments. otherwise, the preferential trade measures in favour of that country will be suspended as from 1 january 2016. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the suspension of the exceptional trade measures in favour of bosnia and herzegovina. i am certainly sympathetic to the difficulties which are currently being experienced by the people of bosnia - and i am thinking particularly of the serbs - following the tragic floods which have left a macabre record of 90 000 displaced persons, 75 000 affected households and 25 victims. this tragic human toll cannot and should not, unfortunately, obscure the behaviour of the government of bosnia-herzegovina following croatia's accession to the eu: if bosnia wants to play the european game, it must accept the rules and respect its commitments. however, since the accession of croatia, the ill-will of the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina has led to a problem in the calculation of quotas, which were fixed by regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing exceptional trade measures. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound.
in writing. ‒ the report presented to the european parliament proposes to suspend the exceptional trade measures granted to bosnia and herzegovina in the event of non-compliance. the accession of croatia to the european union has led to a change in the calculation of the quotas, changes which have not been clearly accepted by bosnia and herzegovina. it appears that cooperation between administrations is a pillar of good understanding and respect for the association agreements concluded between the union and bosnia and herzegovina. for these reasons i voted in favour of the amendments tabled in plenary which reaffirmed these requirements.
in writing. - i vote for it. the european union introduced exceptional trade measures for the balkan countries in 2009 by regulation no 1215/2009 which applied until 31/12/2015. but bosnia and herzegovina has shown reluctance to comply with the rules to be applied in order to comply with this regulation. this is not acceptable, since this is a preferential agreement. the text therefore calls on bosnia and herzegovina to respect its commitments. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by establishing the list of the countries whose nationals are exempt from the measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. i support this proposal. voting in favour of the eu's accession to the european union
in writing. - i voted for this report. in 2009, the union introduced exceptional trade measures in favour of the balkan countries, which were in force until 31 december 2015. since then, association agreements have been signed with all these balkan countries except bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo. with the accession of croatia there is now a problem of calculating quotas, because of the ill will of bosnia-herzegovina. the report calls on bosnia and herzegovina to respect its commitments, failing which the preferential trade measures will be suspended as from 2016. bosnia-herzegovina must respect its commitments and i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ codification consists of grouping normative texts of various kinds into collections concerning a field. it aims at simplification, clarity and transparency. the purpose of this proposal is to codify certain procedures for the application of the trade agreement and the association agreement with bosnia-herzegovina. it should be remembered that the association agreements are intended to impose free trade with the countries concerned. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. so even if it is only a technical report, i am voting against.
in writing. following the accession of croatia to the union, bosnia and herzegovina and the union had to conclude an agreement on the adaptation of the union interim agreement, in order to avoid the suspension of the preferences for bosnia and herzegovina as of 1 january 2016. the accession of croatia has in fact led to technical problems relating to the calculation of the quotas laid down in regulation (no 1215/2009) and to the reluctance of bosnia and herzegovina. the report therefore urges the commission to honour its commitments. otherwise, the trade preference measures could be withdrawn as from 1 january 2016. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which provides for the suspension of the exceptional trade measures in favour of bosnia and herzegovina. the text calls for respect for democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, in particular those of minorities. without this, the process of accession to the european union for this candidate country will not progress.
in writing. the european union is using the threat of this suspension of trade agreements with bosnia to induce bosnia to submit. the abolition of these agreements is also part of the eu's enlargement drive, which aims to integrate bosnia and herzegovina in the long term. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ since bosnia and herzegovina has not yet agreed to adapt the agreement governing its trade relations with the union following the accession of croatia to the union on 1 july 2013, the commission has proposed to temporarily suspend the exceptional trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina. once an agreement has been reached with that country, the sanctions will be lifted. the european parliament adopted this proposal. i voted in favour of this text. it is important that bosnia and herzegovina submits to and accepts the developments of the union in order to ensure the continuation of lasting trade and diplomatic relations with the union.
in writing. ‒ in 2009, the eu introduced exceptional trade measures for the balkan countries. since then, association agreements have been signed with all countries except bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo. following croatia's accession to the eu, there is a problem of calculating quotas linked to the reluctance of bosnia and herzegovina. the text calls on bosnia and herzegovina to play its part and to respect its commitments. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by establishing the list of the beneficiaries of the preferential trade measures. i vote for bosnia's respect for its commitments under a preferential agreement with the eu.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution condemns the persecution of christians. since attacks against christians have increased dramatically in recent months, it is urgent that steps be taken as soon as possible to deal with persecution and prevent further persecution. the proposal aims to strengthen dialogue with christians and urges muslim leaders to condemn terrorist attacks against christians. it advocates cooperation with african states in the fight against terrorism. to this end, it is implementing the creation of a delegation of mediators and experts specialised in the issue of intercultural and interreligious dialogue to stimulate negotiations and mediation of conflicts by un envoys. it also called on the commission to take the necessary measures to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected, and to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. although the solutions that have been put in place are not yet sufficient, this proposal is an urgent first step for christians.
in writing. ‒ while remaining vigilant about the abuse of eu interference, i voted in favour of this text which recognises and denounces the persecution of christians.
in writing. the resolution on the persecution of christians worldwide, including the murder of students in kenya by the terrorist group al-shabaab, recalls a number of fundamental principles to which i am deeply attached. firstly, it condemns the massacre committed by al-shabaab on 2 april 2015 in garissa, which resulted in the murder of 147 innocent young students and the injury of 79 others. these terrorist attacks, which have been carried out, moreover, in educational establishments, must be condemned in the strongest terms by all those who have a respect for human life. second, it reminds us that christians are the most persecuted religious minority in the world, in many parts of the globe. freedom of religion must be guaranteed everywhere in the world and no one should be harassed because of his beliefs. for all these reasons, i can only vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this resolution which strongly condemns the incredible persecution of christians around the world. the resolution thus pays tribute to those students who were cowardly murdered in kenya because they were christians. i also share the desire to cooperate with african states in the fight against terrorism, as is the case in nigeria where we are supporting, at least from a humanitarian point of view, the nigerian authorities but also chad and cameroon in their fight against boko haram. finally, the resolution calls on the main muslim authorities to publicly condemn this persecution of christians, an initiative which i support because it is time for some muslim authorities to take a clear stand on the subject of terrorism and religious cleansing.
in writing. parliament expressed its concern at the abuses committed by the al-shabaab group. recently, this terrorist group attacked the symbol of education by killing more than a hundred students in garissa. this group also repeatedly persecuted christians. the resolution recalls that the latter are targeted by other jihadist groups in many other countries in africa and the middle east. i welcome this new and strong commitment by the european parliament to denounce these persecutions.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution condemns the persecution of christians. since attacks against christians have increased dramatically in recent months, it is urgent that steps be taken as soon as possible to deal with persecution and prevent further persecution. the proposal aims to strengthen dialogue with christians and urges muslim leaders to condemn terrorist attacks against christians. it advocates cooperation with african states in the fight against terrorism. to this end, it is implementing the creation of a delegation of mediators and experts specialised in the issue of intercultural and interreligious dialogue to stimulate negotiations and mediation of conflicts by un envoys. it also called on the commission to take the necessary measures to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected, and to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. although the solutions that have been put in place are not yet sufficient, this proposal is an urgent first step for christians.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the recent massacres of christians are unacceptable and very shocking. freedom of religion is a fundamental right, and the european union must act internationally to defend its judeo-christian values, combat islamist terrorism and help christians live in peace and security.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution condemns the persecution of christians. since attacks against christians have increased dramatically in recent months, it is urgent that steps be taken as soon as possible to deal with persecution and prevent further persecution. the proposal aims to strengthen dialogue with christians and urges muslim leaders to condemn terrorist attacks against christians. it advocates cooperation with african states in the fight against terrorism. to this end, it is implementing the creation of a delegation of mediators and experts specialised in the issue of intercultural and interreligious dialogue to stimulate negotiations and mediation of conflicts by un envoys. it also called on the commission to take the necessary measures to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected, and to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. although the solutions that have been put in place are not yet sufficient, this proposal is an urgent first step for christians.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns the massacres of christians around the world, including the murder of nearly 150 students by al-qaeda in kenya. she also has the merit of denouncing attacks on churches. finally, it is realistic in calling on muslim leaders to condemn the persecution and massacre of christians.
in writing. it is absolutely necessary that the european union should take a stand and condemn the murder of christian students in that country, since it was christians who were targeted. this highlights the persecution they are also suffering in other parts of the world (copts in libya, eastern christians in general, iraq, syria but also pakistan, etc.) the european union must do everything possible to help these christians by supporting all military actions against the islamist terrorists. any military cooperation, particularly with the african countries in the kenya region, should therefore be supported. the muslim leaders must condemn these crimes against christians and thus join the fight against these terrorists who call themselves muslims. the european union must support but at the same time leave the states complete independence of action, because it is used to wanting to impose itself in their political decisions. i am voting in favour because it was essential that the european union condemn the persecution of christians.
in writing. this motion for a resolution concerns the murder of students in kenya by the terrorist group al-shabaab. it recalls a number of fundamental principles to which every citizen must pledge his allegiance. it clearly condemns the massacre of 2 april 2015 in garissa, which killed 147 young students and injured 79. the act is all the more barbaric because it took place in a higher education institution, a symbol of emancipation. it is also because christian minorities are the most persecuted in the world, as the resolution recalls. that is why i could only vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which strongly condemns the persecution of christians around the world, and in particular in kenya with the recent murder of students at the university of garissa by al-shabaab terrorists. the number of attacks on religious minorities has increased sharply in recent months, and it is necessary to recall that christians are the most persecuted religious minority at present.
in writing. this resolution echoes the recent massacre of young kenyan christian students by the terrorist group al-shabaab. they are attacking the youth of this country not only because of their religious affiliation but also because the university is a symbol of knowledge, freedom of thought and conscience, freedoms that these extremist groups are actively fighting against. to protect persecuted minorities, but also to oppose the barbarism of some fundamentalist groups, i voted in favour of this joint resolution.
in writing. it is high time that the european union took an interest in the persecution of christians. sadly, in many countries they are the most persecuted minority. this is not the case in kenya, but the crossing of the border by the terrorist group al-shabaab poses a serious security problem. the fight against islamic fundamentalism and its terrorist methods must be a priority in international cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ following the recent persecution of christians in kenya, the european parliament has decided to react and denounce the attacks targeting this religious group. attacks targeting christians have increased sharply in recent months, mostly by jihadist terrorists in parts of the arab world. after lengthy negotiations in parliament, the deputies finally recognized christians as a religious minority. i voted in favour of this report and stress the importance of this resolution. the christians in the arab world were asking for help from europe and we finally answered their call.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, in which we strongly condemn the terrorist attack in kenya by al-shabaab, which led to the death of 147 innocent young students. we are reminded that all violations of human rights and all attacks on persons on the grounds of their religion, belief or ethnic origin are intolerable. in the face of these tragedies, the kenyan authorities must take their responsibility to combat violence and protect the fundamental rights of its people. we also call on the european union to take action by coordinating with other african countries, by working with the african union and by establishing a military training programme in kenya. the persecution of christians around the world is a matter of concern: every day christians are being massacred, beaten and arrested by terrorists in an exponential manner. christians like those in iraq and syria must be allowed to continue living in their native lands. freedom of religion is a fundamental right and it is a priority for the union to ensure that all religious communities live in safety.
in writing. ‒ i was deeply shocked by the massacre of 147 students on the campus of the university of garissa in kenya and by supporting this text, i strongly condemn this terrorist attack. following this tragedy, the union must provide the necessary support to kenya to ensure peace and stability in the country and the region and to combat terrorism and the expansion of al-shabaab. eu cooperation with regional organisations such as the african union is also essential. the resolution also condemns the terrorist attacks on christians and other religious communities which have increased in recent months.
in writing. ‒ the world today is witnessing an unprecedented persecution of christians who are dying every day under the swords and bullets of a newly conquering radical islamism. so this initiative is a good thing and i support its vote. unfortunately, these persecutions are often the result of inconsistent policies pursued by the diplomatic services of certain member states which are subject to the will of the united states. the most striking example is that some of the most experienced defenders of christians in this european parliament are members of the french ump, which was directly responsible for and behind the destabilisation of certain countries in the middle east, particularly those which subsequently saw their religious minorities persecuted and massacred. i therefore support any idea of fighting against these persecutions and any initiative of honest and balanced international cooperation in defence of christians in the world. i vote for it.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. it is clear that we must condemn terrorist acts and the european parliament could have done so much earlier for the students of garissa, whoever the perpetrators, whoever the victims and wherever in the world they may be. i do not think that this resolution is universal. first, by its title, changed at the last minute to denounce the persecution of christians all over the world. then there are the many amendments added by the epp which give the impression that the massacre in kenya has become a pretext. so yes, the tragic event of the garissa attack was mostly christian deaths and i regret all those deaths. however, i think it is worth recalling that, on a global scale, it is muslims who are the most affected by terrorism and that other religious minorities are also affected around the world. i denounce the use of this resolution to defend civilised and warlike theses to which i am firmly opposed. this is not the way to combat the rise of communitarianism. it's the opposite.
in writing. ‒ while remaining vigilant about the abuse of eu interference, i voted in favour of this text which recognises and denounces the persecution of christians.
in writing. the resolution on the destruction of cultural sites by the 'islamic state' group condemns in the strongest terms the real crime against humanity of this attack on the very rich cultural heritage, present in particular in syria and iraq. the attacks on the heritage are absolutely outrageous in that the aim of the terrorists of the islamic state group is to erase the memory of a particular people, ethnic group or religious group. not content with killing human beings, terrorists aim to wipe out a culture that is not their own. the resolution also strongly condemns the illegal trafficking of cultural goods in europe and proposes to strengthen the means of combating such trafficking. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ many cultural sites have been destroyed by the islamic state in syria and iraq. these acts must be seen as a genuine attempt to harm a culture, a religion. cultural diversity is one of the founding elements of the european union. the union shall guarantee this principle within and outside its borders. these attacks are undeniably attacks on cultural diversity. the islamic state wants to destroy a religion, a culture and all the elements that make it up. we will not allow such atrocities to continue to occur. the european parliament is sending a message of unity to the rest of the world through this resolution. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in recent months we have witnessed the destruction by the islamic state of priceless works of the historical heritage of the iraqi and syrian nations. looking at these appalling images of the demolition of pre-islamic statues or monuments, one cannot help but think of the giant buddhas of bamiyan in afghanistan, or the mausoleums of timbuktu. in the face of such a destructive madness, the predatory systems organized in the 2000s by the us occupation authorities in iraq, starting with the looting of the baghdad museum, almost seem like a lesser evil! what is common to all totalitarianisms, to the terror, during the french revolution, and its immense damage to the french christian heritage, to the maoist cultural revolution in china, to the taliban in afghanistan, to the islamic state in iraq and syria, is this same blind faith in the new man, the uprooted man, the product of a religious law or an ideological system, the man torn from historical time. in the name of human dignity in history, i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution strongly condemns the destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites by is in syria and iraq by the islamic state. it is particularly shocking to see elements of the world's heritage being deliberately destroyed in this way. considering that the european union must act with all the means at its disposal to combat the illicit sale of cultural property of syrian or iraqi origin resulting from such destruction, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament condemns in the strongest terms the destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites by daesh in syria and iraq. these destructions are one of the most abject faces of barbarism. by destroying priceless works of art such as the pre-islamic statues in the mosul museum in iraq, daesh is attacking the very history of peoples and civilizations. two international treaties have been put in place under the auspices of the united nations: the 1954 hague convention for the protection of cultural property in the event of armed conflict and the 1970 unesco convention to prohibit the illicit import, export and transfer of ownership of cultural property. it is urgent that all the member states of the european union ratify them.
in writing. ‒ on thursday 30 april, i voted in favour of a text to end the destruction and looting of archaeological sites, historic buildings and cultural works by isil. the recent attacks by the islamic state group on the bardo museum in tunis and the deliberate destruction of the mosul museum in iraq and historical sites in syria show that these acts are much more than cultural tragedies and could be described as acts of cultural cleansing. the aim of terrorists is to use the destruction of civil and religious buildings and archaeological sites which are part of the common heritage of humanity to destabilise populations and destroy their identity. similarly, the looting of archaeological sites and the illicit trafficking of cultural objects are used as a "tool of war" to finance terrorist activities. it 's a shame ! the deliberate destruction of cultural heritage constitutes a war crime. the european union must stand up against this barbarity!
in writing. i supported this resolution because it calls for the definition of 'crime against humanity' under international law to be extended to include acts that intentionally damage or destroy the cultural heritage of humanity on a large scale. what is being perpetrated by isis/da'esh against cultural and archaeological sites in syria and iraq constitutes an unacceptable 'cultural cleansing', aimed not only at providing additional funding to this terror organization, but above all at destroying archaeological sites, cultural and religious symbols and the heritage of the people living in these areas, which are essential for the rest of the world. the resolution also calls on the commission and the member states to develop awareness campaigns to discourage the purchase and sale of cultural goods from the illicit trade in these war-torn regions.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the destruction of cultural sites by the daesh group opposes the systematic destruction of cultural heritage in syria and iraq by this terrorist group. these abuses go far beyond mere stupidity and provocation. by systematically destroying the cultural assets of civilizations and cultures other than their value system in the occupied areas, daesh and its militants are practicing a purge of memory. a prelude to an ethnic cleansing that has already begun for some peoples. the definition of crimes against humanity in this text is therefore quite appropriate. on the other hand, the trafficking that results from such destruction is intolerable, it deprives people of their heritage, erases the presence of cultures and civilizations in a territory, and finances terrorist and criminal organizations. we cannot be complicit in these horrors or in the trade in these goods stolen from peoples. i therefore joined in this resolution, which i co-signed and supported when it was adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it condemns the destruction of cultural sites by the islamic state. it calls for the urgent dismantling of daesh's financing and arms supply networks.
in writing. - i vote for it. the text highlights the responsibility of syrian rebels for the destruction of cultural property. the european union must also support any military action against the daesh groups and fight against the networks which facilitate the trafficking of cultural goods. i do not believe that terrorism can be explained by the poverty of some peoples. we have with daesh an organization that has a strong will to conquer to implement their vision of islam and the destruction of cultural property is part of that vision, as are their crimes. because the destruction of cultural property is not their only crime. we should support initiatives to rehabilitate cultural heritage as our common heritage and support any interstate military cooperation to combat trafficking in cultural property.
in writing. this resolution deals with the destruction of cultural sites by the terrorist group 'islamic state'. it strongly condemns the unacceptable attack on the cultural heritage of syria and iraq, which is a real crime against humanity. the damage to the heritage of humanity is outrageous, since it is the very existence of civilizations that is being attacked. it is a question of eradicating all trace of it, all existence, all memory, and replacing it with an ideology of enslavement. the resolution not only condemns but also proposes to put an end to the illegal trafficking of cultural property in europe and to strengthen the means of combating it. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the destruction and looting of cultural sites by the islamic state group in syria and iraq. these actions constitute a veritable cultural genocide which must be stopped. the text also calls on the commission to draw up a common strategy to combat the illicit trade in stolen cultural goods. the illegal trade in cultural goods, orchestrated by organised criminal networks, is the third largest after drugs and arms.
in writing. i supported the joint resolution on the destruction of cultural sites by the islamic state group, following the destruction of the ancient city of hatra in northern iraq, the destruction of the city of nimrud and the sacking of the mosul museum. the resolution also strongly condemns the problem of illicit trade in cultural goods, which partly finances terrorist activities. just like the atrocities committed against the civilian population in syria or iraq, this plundering of the cultural heritage of humanity must stop immediately.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, we are currently experiencing a modern barbarism, when we have to watch how radical islamists from the so-called islamic state, without any reason and with a false reference to islam, destroy cultural values that have survived for hundreds and thousands of years and are part of the world's cultural heritage. some of these monuments have been preserved for hundreds of years under muslim rule. this also confirms the totally extremist approach of the so-called islamic state to all human values. the situation affects me even more because i am myself actively involved in the institution, in the prague museum of the camp of medy mládková, which seeks to preserve works of art. i therefore clearly support the condemnatory resolution as presented in the ep.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament condemned on thursday the destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites by the islamic state in syria and iraq. i voted in favour of this resolution which strongly encourages the relevant european institutions to take appropriate measures to combat such destruction and the illegal trade in cultural property stolen from the conflict zones in syria and iraq.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution which denounces the destruction of cultural, archaeological and religious sites by the islamic state group in syria and iraq. these are hundreds of rare manuscripts or ancient objects, belonging to our common cultural heritage, that were destroyed by da'esh. the large-scale degradation of the cultural heritage of humanity is a barbaric act, and should be considered a crime against humanity under international law. the european union cannot remain silent in the face of this situation. we call on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to take appropriate measures to prevent the illegal trade in such cultural goods of syrian or iraqi origin. under no circumstances should art from conflict zones be allowed to be bought or sold in europe and thus used as a source of terrorist financing. of course, we have a responsibility to prevent further looting of archaeological sites, as well as to protect civilian lives.
in writing. ‒ the islamic state and more generally the armed islamic factions that are currently active in the countries of the near and middle east are not only engaged in massacres of entire and targeted populations but also in the destruction and trafficking of cultural and religious property. goods that generally make the immense wealth of the countries they claim to want to rule as in syria where the heritage is systematically targeted. the return of cultural property that has been the object of such trafficking must be a long-term objective. the resolution condemns the islamic state, as identified, but should also condemn other armed groups such as the al-nusra front, which minister fabius said a short while ago was "doing a good job". i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the destruction of the ancient city of hatra in northern iraq is symbolic of daesh's desire to destroy sites and cultural assets in iraq and syria. while the extent of the damage to the ancient city cannot yet be confirmed or known, many other destructions have occurred in recent months, including the destruction of the archaeological city of nirmoud and some treasures from the mosul museum. these destructions, which may be regarded as war crimes, are irreparably damaging to the heritage of humanity in this region where the first great civilizations were born. the resolution also condemns the illicit trafficking of syrian and iraqi cultural property which finances terrorist groups. although i think the resolution should have also addressed the destruction by all parties to the conflict including the syrian authorities and the syrian army, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ without endorsing the practices in question in this text, i voted against this resolution which goes too far in interference.
in writing. this resolution on the situation in the maldives highlights serious shortcomings in the maldivian judicial system and several serious breaches of freedom of expression and democratic process. in addition, there is concern about the increase in the number of islamist militants in the maldives, in particular the large number of young men who are alleged to have joined the terrorist group 'islamic state'. however, considering that the union and the states should not interfere in the internal affairs of other sovereign nations, i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in the maldives. the authoritarian drift of the republic is very disturbing. the court of justice is increasingly being politically interfered with and civil society and the media are being deprived of certain freedoms. this is particularly worrying. in addition, former president mohamed nasheed, a staunch defender of human rights and democratic pluralism, was sentenced to 13 years in prison. the trial of the former president does not respect international judicial rules. the european parliament calls on the maldives to make a significant improvement in the situation.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this resolution concerning the situation in the maldives. it is clear that i do not support certain practices of the maldivian authorities which are denounced in the report. so, i am obviously shocked by this decision of 27 april 2014 by the maldives parliament which authorizes the sentencing of minors from the age of seven, who can be held responsible and executed from their eighteenth birthday and languish in prison until their execution. despite my personal views on these actions which are objectively contrary to respect for the human person and the rights of the child, i could not, however, vote in favour of this resolution which advocates complete interference in the political and legislative processes of the maldives. while i am deeply committed to freedom of expression, the right to protest and freedom in general, it is not for the european institutions to urge a sovereign government to take this or that measure, to carry out this or that reform or to choose this or that political or economic direction. because i believe in the balance between conviction and political realism, i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this resolution expresses the european parliament's concern at the increasingly authoritarian tendencies in the maldives following the crackdown on political opponents, the media and civil society. moreover, there is every indication that the current trial of former president of the republic mohamed nasheed, elected in 2008 and overthrown in 2012 by a mutiny of the army and police, suffers from serious irregularities. it is also of concern that the death penalty has been reinstated in the maldives, ending the current moratorium on the practice. considering that it is necessary for the european union to contribute to a credible and open political process to end the current crisis, to restore and preserve stability in the maldives and to enable a democratic transition, with respect for the rule of law and human rights, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the european parliament, in this resolution, strongly condemned the threats to the rule of law in the maldives. i would like to emphasize that the death penalty is not the answer. i call on the maldivian executive and legislature to heed the european parliament's demands.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the maldives is deteriorating alarmingly. in the face of growing political tensions, the maldivian authorities are using methods that undermine the impartiality of the judiciary and the rights of the defence, in order to politically eliminate opponents. this has led to the imprisonment of several leading opposition figures, including mohamed nasheed, a human rights activist and former president of the republic, who was recently sentenced to 13 years in prison for terrorism. the european parliament resolution calls on all parties in the maldives to avoid any action that could aggravate the increasingly authoritarian tendencies and to respect democracy and the rule of law. the international community must mobilize and put pressure on those responsible to end all forms of violence against peaceful protesters, critical media and civil society. the perpetrators of violent attacks must be brought to justice swiftly.
in writing. the present motion for a resolution expresses concern at the problems in the maldives judicial system and the serious violations of freedom of expression and democratic engagement, fuelled by the dramatic increase in the number of young male islamist militants in the maldives joining the islamic state terrorists. the situation is serious and worrisome, but we must beware of interfering in the affairs of a sovereign state. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in the maldives. the text points to a decline in the rule of law in this archipelago in the indian ocean and calls for vigilance in the face of several phenomena affecting the country: forced labour, sexual exploitation of children and women, armed militias, an increase in radicalised young men, the reintroduction of the death penalty by the government, etc.
in writing. ‒ meps adopted a resolution condemning the current situation in the maldives and expressed deep concern at the government's authoritarian drift. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. i voted in favour of this resolution. meps have a duty to defend the eu's fundamental values.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which denounces the worrying situation in the maldives and was drafted following the conviction of the former president of the maldives to 13 years in prison for terrorism. the situation is worrying given the course of the trial and the obstacles that prevented the former president from accessing his lawyers and also prevented him from being able to appeal his judgment within the required time limits. in parallel, the overall situation in the country is worrying with the reintroduction last year of the death penalty, including for minors.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the situation in the maldives takes stock of the deterioration of human rights in the country. on 13 march 2015, mohamed nasheed, the first democratically elected president of the maldives, was sentenced to 13 years in prison for terrorism in a controversial trial that did not meet national and international judicial standards. at the same time, at least 140 peaceful protesters have been arrested since february. ngos and human rights defenders are increasingly facing harassment and threats and attacks of various kinds. the maldives human rights commission (mhrc) was even brought before the supreme court for high treason after presenting its report on the human rights situation in the country. and the death penalty was reinstated after a 30-year moratorium. i voted for this resolution to express my concern about the deteriorating situation in the maldives, a small country which would need the unity of all democratic forces to face the threats to it due to the rising waters resulting from climate change which are likely to submerge most of these islands.
in writing. ‒ this report is the fruit of the european union's ideology of enlargement at all costs. the present european union is already an invasive machine which does not respect the states, but the technocrats are determined to continue on the path they have chosen, without ever asking themselves what they are doing. this is how albania is allocated good and bad points in terms of integration, in defiance of the sovereignty of that state. the report thus underlines 'the permanent division of the albanian political forces', and thus interferes in the internal politics of a state which is not even a member of the union. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote against the adoption of this text, which is driven by a narrow ideology of the race for enlargement.
in writing. ‒ apart from the problems of widespread corruption and organised crime that have plagued albania for so many years, how can we continue negotiations with this country whose prime minister has recently expressed his wish for a greater albania with the accession of kosovo? this statement was made by edi rama in the presence of mr. hashim thaçi, former head of the terrorist organization kla. i understand the eurocrats' bitter hostility to the natural annexation of crimea to the russian federation all the less as they have supported with equal fervour the independence of kosovo, the historic cradle of the serbian nation. however, i note that the report 'welcomes the fact that albania has fully complied with the european union's foreign policy positions, including the restrictive measures against russia...' the commission and parliament have certainly condemned this new provocation by mr rama, which is likely to have a detrimental effect on the cohesion of the neighbouring countries, starting with macedonia and montenegro. but edi rama has made it clear that he doesn't care about your soft convictions. in these circumstances, why insist on continuing negotiations with albania?
in writing. ‒ this follow-up report aims to highlight 'the spectacular progress towards accession' made by albania. this is clearly a prerequisite, as usual, to a desire to enlarge the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. this report is a good example of the union's influence on albania, both politically and in the legislative and judicial spheres. unfortunately, albania is still a region of concern, particularly because of corruption and organised crime. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which, in the context of enlargement, aims to highlight 'the spectacular progress on the road to accession' made by albania. the members of parliament in this report, as always when it comes to widening the european leviathan, are dividing up the good and the bad points in terms of reform. thus, if albania follows the eu's instructions, it is promised a future that sings: "considering that the systematic adoption and implementation of long-term reforms in the five priority areas contribute to albania's democratic transformation". the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the european council welcomes the fact that the eu has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised by the eu's actions in the region. finally, it goes without saying that the report shows a genuine desire for european intervention in the albanian political, legislative and judicial processes.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows up the 2014 follow-up report on the progress of the eu's accession negotiations with albania. the european parliament expresses its support for albania's european integration process and also calls for the administrative capacity of the central administration and local governments to be strengthened and for the rule of law and judicial system to be reformed. in addition, efforts must also be made to promote freedom of the press and human rights. although albania's constructive attitude in the region in terms of bilateral and regional cooperation is welcomed, the negotiation process is still far from being completed and accession is not expected for many years. in view of these factors and the above diagnosis, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the integration process with albania has led to many reforms in the direction of democracy, the rule of law and the smoothening of relations with neighbouring states. i would like to remind you, however, that the european union must take a long-term break in its enlargement policy.
in writing. ‒ the report before us approves the codification of a legal instrument on the stabilisation and association agreements between the european union and albania. this act would confirm the european union's trade and neighbourhood policy, which i dispute as prefiguring the political enlargement of an organisation which is not based on national realities or the interests of the peoples of europe. i do not want to endorse this policy, which is not being seriously monitored and evaluated, so i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is the fruit of the european union's ideology of enlargement at all costs. the present union is already an invasive machine which does not respect the nation states, but the technocrats are determined to continue on the path they have chosen, without ever asking themselves what they are doing. this is how albania is allocated good and bad points in terms of integration, in defiance of the sovereignty of that state. the report thus underlines 'the permanent division of the albanian political forces', and thus interferes in the internal politics of a state which is not even a member of the union. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote against the adoption of this text, which is driven by a narrow ideology of the race for enlargement.
in writing. - i vote against it. the national front is opposed to any form of enlargement. we do not believe that membership is the only prospect for a country. the european union also continues its policy of interference in the political and administrative institutions of the applicant countries. albania has an important role to play in the region, but it does not have to be within the european union. it wants to apply a form of democratic centralism which means that the member states are obliged to obey and to adopt a uniform position, faithful to that advocated by the european union. i am therefore opposed to this text and to the enlargement which is in the offing with albania and to the leadership of the european union which criticizes the policies of that country in order to guide them.
in writing. - i voted against this report. as is often the case, the aim is to prepare albania for integration into the european union by encouraging it to reform its political, legislative and judicial institutions. this interference by the union is unacceptable and we are against this forced enlargement.
in writing. ‒ this report is the fruit of the european union's ideology of enlargement at all costs. the present union is already an invasive machine which does not respect the nation states, but the technocrats are determined to continue on the path they have chosen, without ever asking themselves what they are doing. this is how albania is being given good and bad points in terms of integration, in defiance of the sovereignty of that state. the report thus underlines 'the permanent division of the albanian political forces' and thus interferes in the internal politics of a state which is not even a member of the union. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this 2014 monitoring report on albania presents a bias that magnifies the progress made by albania. it speaks of the spectacular progress made by albania on the road to membership. however, the reality is much darker. widespread corruption and the high level of organized crime are a further problem. the question is why the union persists in wanting to extend its 'frontier' almost indefinitely. why does it give albania the illusion of future membership when it is clear that it does not meet any of the criteria and that the pace of progress is far too slow to allow for membership even in the medium term? the report is also biased, since it shows that the only indicator taken into account to show the sincerity of albania in its approach is still support for sanctions against russia. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the follow-up to albania's application for membership of the european union. the text welcomes the reforms undertaken in the country, which became an official candidate in june 2014, but stresses the many difficulties that remain and constitute obstacles to the fulfilment of the necessary criteria for the opening of negotiations.
in writing. ‒ in june 2014, albania was granted the status of candidate country to the european union. the albanian government has made spectacular progress, but some difficulties persist and reforms are still needed before eu integration. the commission and parliament encourage albania in particular to continue its efforts in the field of political cooperation. the european parliament adopted the follow-up report for albania for 2014. i support the reforms that this country is undertaking. however, i reiterate my wish to establish a five-year moratorium on any new membership.
in writing. ‒ with a view to enlargement, this follow-up report aims to highlight the 'dramatic progress on the road to accession' made by albania. the parliamentarians in this report, as always when it comes to enlarging the european union, are dividing up the good and the bad points on reform. finally, it goes without saying that the report shows a genuine european will in the albanian political, legislative and judicial process. i opposed both any further enlargement of the european union and the moralising nature of this text, which once again intrudes into the internal affairs of any state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this 2014 follow-up report on bosnia and herzegovina because it is fully in line with a forced-enlargement ideology, based on the complete interference of brussels in the institutions of the state concerned. for example, the country's alignment with brussels diplomacy, as well as the consecration of ethnic and sexual communitarianisms.
in writing. ‒ this 2014 follow-up report on bosnia and herzegovina is again part of a forced enlargement ideology, based on the complete interference of brussels in the institutions of the state concerned. the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina were called upon to 'urgently amend the penal code' and were reprimanded for having dared to pursue 'a foreign policy of the country which is still characterised by divergent positions, which translates into a low degree of alignment with the union's positions'. a real challenge to the prerogatives of any sovereign state over its foreign policy. as in most reports on the prospects for enlargement, the state is called upon to reform all its institutions and to pursue a policy in line with the wishes of brussels, particularly as regards the consolidation of ethnic and sexual communal identities. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ stabilisation of june 2008, the situation in bosnia and herzegovina remains more than worrying. following a meeting of the un security council in 2013 and corroborated by eu follow-up reports, the conclusion is clear: the lack of progress in implementing political and economic reforms, the repeated use of separatist rhetoric and deep divisions between political parties are all factors that are counter to the efforts of those who would like to see bosnia and herzegovina become a stable and viable state. moreover, 20 years after the war in the region began, national minorities are still excluded from participation in national politics. finally, bosnia and herzegovina has made little progress in the fight against corruption, which remains a major problem as is organised crime. the country remains a source of arms supply for criminal groups in the eu. as things stand, it is inconceivable to consider bosnia and herzegovina's accession to the eu until it has overcome these obstacles, which are likely to quickly turn into a powder keg.
in writing. ‒ this follow-up report on bosnia and herzegovina for 2014 is part of the logic of forced enlargement, of total interference and unfortunately does not take into account the political and economic reality of bosnia and herzegovina, which is why i had to vote against it. we want to integrate into the european union a country where 45% of the population is unemployed and where a third of the population works in the public administration; a country whose 300 citizens are fighting jihad in syria and which was the scene, on tuesday, april 28, 2015, of a tragic islamist attack in zvornik, which killed a policeman and two other people, all of whom were from the serb minority, a serb minority that, it must be said, is particularly affected by the political and economic instability of the country. it is time to abandon illusions and work towards interstate cooperation that will change things for the people of bosnia and herzegovina in a positive way.
in writing. ‒ draft resolution on the follow-up report on bosnia and herzegovina for 2014 this resolution follows the 2014 follow-up report on the progress of the european union negotiations in bosnia and herzegovina. parliament expressed its support for the new framework programme for reforms in bosnia and herzegovina, which was signed on 23 february. it also welcomed the process of constitutional reform which must be continued in order to bring about a functioning state and the democratisation of the institutional system. although positive progress has been made in the fight against corruption, organised crime and terrorism, the negotiation process is still far from being completed and accession is not expected for many years. in view of these factors and the above diagnosis, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this 2014 follow-up report on bosnia and herzegovina because it is fully in line with a forced-enlargement ideology, based on the complete interference of brussels in the institutions of the state concerned. for example, the country's alignment with brussels diplomacy, as well as the consecration of ethnic and sexual communitarianisms.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this 2014 follow-up report on bosnia and herzegovina because it is fully in line with a forced-enlargement ideology, based on the complete interference of brussels in the institutions of the state concerned. for example, the country's alignment with brussels diplomacy, as well as the consecration of ethnic and sexual communitarianisms.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the aim is to prepare bosnia and herzegovina for future integration by interfering in its affairs: the european union calls into question bosnia and herzegovina's prerogatives over its foreign policy, calls on it to reform its institutions, to conduct a policy in line with the wishes of brussels and imposes the opinion of institutions considered to be moral authorities, in this case the hague tribunal. it is an attack on the sovereignty of states, and we are firmly opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ this report is fully in line with a forced-enlargement ideology based on complete interference by brussels in the institutions of the state concerned. for example, the country's alignment with brussels diplomacy, as well as the consecration of ethnic and sexual communitarianisms. i voted against it.
in writing. the 2014 monitoring report for bosnia and herzegovina shows that the situation in the country, which has been a candidate for eu membership since 2003, remains a matter of concern, as from the point of view of both the un and the union, no progress can be noted in the implementation of political and economic reforms. in addition, the resurgence of separatist sentiment, divisions between political parties and the exclusion of minorities appear to be undermining the viability of the state of bosnia and herzegovina. this endless pursuit of enlargement of the union, without consulting the peoples of the member states already, and having been unable to absorb previous accessions, seems to me dangerous. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which calls on bosnia and herzegovina to continue its efforts to meet the criteria for opening possible accession negotiations with the european union. the text recalls that bosnia and herzegovina, like all other candidate countries, must be judged on the quality and speed of the institutional, economic and social reforms required, the timing of which will depend.
in writing. this report, a prelude to enlargement, calls on bosnia and herzegovina to renounce its prerogatives as a sovereign state and submit to the goodwill of the european institutions. since i am opposed to any enlargement and any attack on sovereignty, i naturally voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in 2008, bosnia and herzegovina signed a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union. however, the country's internal difficulties and the prolonged political impasse prevent the country from carrying out the necessary reforms. the rule of law situation remains very fragile and the government must make considerable efforts if it is to comply with european requirements. the european parliament adopted the 2014 follow-up report for bosnia and herzegovina and welcomed the country's commitment to possible european integration. i encourage this country to undertake the reforms it needs. however, i reiterate my wish to establish a moratorium of 5 to 10 years for any new membership.
in writing. ‒ this 2014 follow-up report on bosnia and herzegovina is again part of a forced enlargement ideology, based on the complete interference of brussels in the institutions of the state concerned. the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina were called upon to 'urgently amend the penal code' and were reprimanded for having dared to pursue 'a foreign policy of the country which is still characterised by divergent positions, which translates into a low degree of alignment with the union's positions'. it is a real challenge to the prerogatives of any sovereign state over its foreign policy. as in most reports on the prospects for enlargement, the state is called upon to reform all its institutions and to pursue a policy in line with the wishes of brussels, particularly as regards the consolidation of ethnic and sexual communal identities. finally, it should be noted that the union has virtually forbidden any challenge to the legitimacy of certain institutions. i vote no to this text written by amateurs who ignore the political, economic and ethnic reality of this country.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina, along with five other western balkan countries, was identified as a 'potential candidate' for eu membership at the thessaloniki european summit in 2003. since then, the council and the european commission have traded visa facilitation agreements and "candidate for european integration" status in exchange for the famous structural economic reforms. the message from this resolution is clear: bosnia has not made sufficient efforts to move towards a "functioning market economy". the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances. the social situation in bosnia and herzegovina is explosive and the development of the rule of law and equality between citizens still needs to progress. while i support the prospect of the integration of the western balkan countries, provided that the people of the countries concerned are in favour of it, i refuse to see it as a response to economic blackmail and to the detriment of the citizens. i abstain, also to avoid confusing my vote with those who see bosnia and herzegovina primarily as a country with a large muslim majority which must be denied any prospect of integration.
in writing. - this report raises a number of shortcomings. on the one hand, the eib has not committed sufficient investment finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. this report reflects the european investment bank's priority to focus on european projects. it is therefore legitimate to ask about the real possibilities for french companies to access these funds. on the other hand, i regret the scale of international financing, even though the member states of the european union are in great need of it. my abstention therefore means that the european investment bank must review its priorities and stop backing ill-conceived european projects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this 2013 eib annual report, an indispensable tool for boosting economic growth in europe.
in writing. this report relates to the 2013 annual report on the european investment bank. i believe that europe should be given priority in the implementation of the eib's financing policy and that the eib should reduce its lending to investments outside the european union. finally, its financial support for smes/smis should be strengthened. this report on the eib is a perfect illustration of the union's mentality. it rightly deplores the 27% drop in private and public investment since 2009, but at the same time it is constantly advocating a policy of austerity to save the euro and to go further and further down the road to federalism. the whole of economic policy must be reviewed, not just the eib's guidelines! moreover, the system of eib investment allocation leaves little room for manoeuvre for member states, which are better placed to determine the suitability of local projects. considering this, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank (eib) is a very important body of the european union. we need his impulse now more than ever. the lack of investment in europe is a matter of great concern. to get growth back, we need to increase investment. this is the objective of the juncker plan. the role of the european investment bank will be essential in this respect, particularly as regards the european fund for strategic investments. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this resolution takes note of the annual report of the european investment bank for the year 2013. the european investment bank, the european union's arm in terms of financing the private and public sectors, has expanded its activities significantly, with a 37% increase in its financing activities to €75.1 billion, in the context of the economic crisis to compensate for weak public and private investment. considering that this institution is one of the cornerstones of the juncker plan, since it should contribute up to eur 16 billion to the revival of investment in energy and climate, infrastructure, research and innovation and employment, it should be given all the necessary political support in its difficult task. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the european investment bank. it is indeed moving in the right direction, focusing its recommendations on the link between investment and employment in europe and on support for smes. i take this opportunity to renew my support for the commission's initiative on the european fund for strategic investments.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the 2013 annual report of the european investment bank. this report raises a number of shortcomings. on the one hand, the eib has not committed sufficient investment finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. this report shows the priority the european investment bank gives to european projects. it is therefore legitimate to ask about the real possibilities for french companies to access these funds. on the other hand, i regret the scale of international financing, even though the member states of the european union are in great need of it. my abstention therefore means that the european investment bank must review its priorities and stop backing ill-conceived european projects.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the 2013 annual report of the european investment bank. this report raises a number of shortcomings. on the one hand, the eib has not committed sufficient investment finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. this report shows the priority the european investment bank gives to european projects. it is therefore legitimate to ask about the real possibilities for french companies to access these funds. on the other hand, i regret the scale of international financing, even though the member states of the european union are in great need of it. my abstention therefore means that the european investment bank must review its priorities and stop backing ill-conceived european projects.
in writing. ‒ the eib is an institution with an opaque functioning. it finances projects which have no connection with the needs of the ecological transition and which do not meet social criteria. this naive report suggests that we approve its activity report by adding some criticisms. the report thus considers that the european commission's investment plan will encourage and facilitate access to finance in the member states while acknowledging that the guarantees that the commission plans to put in place for the efsi are not fuelled by fresh money but by resources that have been reallocated . the text also provides cautious support for the development of public-private partnerships (ppps). i vote against this hypocritical text.
in writing. ‒ the eib's operations should be clarified and the lending to projects outside the european union better regulated. the eib too often finances projects that could be financed by private investors, in particular to maintain its credit rating and to be able to finance itself on its own account. it must retain its vocation, which is to correct imbalances.
in writing. the debate on the eib shows the political and economic schizophrenia of the union. on the one hand, the annual activity report rightly deplores a collapse in private and public investment of around 27% since 2009. on the other hand, the european institutions continue, report after report, to advocate a policy of austerity in the name of the euro, the sacred cow of brussels, a policy which we know perfectly well kills investment and hinders the financing of smes. to be effective, the eib must operate in a completely re-engineered economic environment where the union and its policies no longer have a place. there will be no sustainable investment if the union sticks to a policy that has deindustrialised the continent and demoralized entrepreneurs. in addition, the system of allocation of investment by the eib seems to us to be very workable, since it leaves almost no room for manoeuvre to the member states, which are best placed to determine the suitability of projects. for example, the juncker plan will retain only the most profitable projects, to the benefit of a few large cities and agglomerations and to the detriment of rural areas and medium-sized cities. i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 annual report of the european investment bank, which plays a key role in supporting public and private investment in the member states and the union, but also in implementing the €315 billion juncker investment plan. in the current difficult economic environment, the eib's involvement helps maintain social cohesion by stimulating job creation and infrastructure.
in writing. the 2013 annual report of the european investment bank reports an increase of 37% in eib financing activities, a decline of 18% in public and private investment, including a 35% decrease in lending to smes over the period 2007-2013. the report suggests that investment should be directed towards activities with european added value, and on the potential for job creation, especially in countries with the highest unemployment rates, as well as in research and social affairs, and suggests improving governance and transparency of investment. i voted for this report, which seems to me to be moving in the right direction and would correct some of the mistakes in the eib's investment strategy.
in writing. the report proposes that priority be given to projects with european added value. however, many high value-added investments have a national rather than a european dimension. this priority criterion will further complicate access to eib financing for smes and local and regional authorities. in addition, financing projects domiciled in non-eu countries poses a problem at a time when the real economy is becoming scarcer in financial instruments. in 2013, the eib financed €8 billion of projects domiciled in third countries. the eib's financing share outside the eu should be redirected towards smes in the internal market. finally, the geographical distribution of eib financing reveals significant differences in the loans granted to the various member states. in 2013, france received eur 276 million in loans, compared with eur 537 million for germany and eur 2.3 billion for italy. these allocation problems raise questions about the transparency of procedures and criteria adopted by the eib's governance committee. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ meps adopted the annual report of the european investment bank for the financial year 2013. i voted in favour of this report. however, i regret the dramatic decline in lending to smes and stress the importance of further support for smes in the future in order to encourage investment in europe and indeed to stimulate the recovery of growth.
in writing. ‒ the european investment bank (eib) is a european financial institution that finances projects in europe and in third countries in the fields of infrastructure, energy, research and innovation, etc. the european parliament's annual report on the eib's activities in 2013 calls for support for public and private investment and contains some criticisms of the investment plan launched by the juncker commission in july 2014, including the fact that part of the allocated funding is taken from other projects. so it's a game of pure illusion! the report also laments that half of the member states will not achieve their national targets for education and reducing greenhouse gases by 2020. and it's worse for jobs and poverty. the austerity policies are called into question in view of their effects on economic growth, the sharp deterioration of social conditions, the increase in imbalances between european regions and their democratic consequences. i could therefore only vote in favour of such a report, even though it is most likely to have no effect on the policies being pursued.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution conceals the hypocrisy of the eu's food and agricultural policy bodies behind good intentions. it aims to promote a reliable and sustainable agricultural sector throughout the union, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment and family farms supported by a dynamic, fairer, internationally sustainable and properly financed common agricultural policy . one of the most important is the need for food security. however, small-scale farming models cannot be adopted in france or the united states, where 48 million people are struggling to feed themselves and receive food aid. food sovereignty is essential for food security and the models advocated in this resolution do not contribute to it. moreover, these very good intentions are far from the actual policy pursued by the union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it will be an opportunity to feed the debate needed for the sustainability of our planet.
in writing. the resolution aims to improve food security, combat waste, develop agriculture in the third world and protect soils. this is a non-binding resolution, which takes the opportunity of the 2015 world expo in milan to encourage the union to promote these actions. this report shows the schizophrenia of the union, which on the one hand promotes free world trade and free and undistorted competition, thus favouring an 'americanized society' even in its food, and on the other complains about food insecurity in the union, in particular the situation of 80 million people living below the poverty line, of whom nearly 3 million die every year from food-related diseases. finally, the text makes no mention of a change in the agricultural model based on productivism and does not call into question treaties such as ttip, which encourage the importation of bad sanitary or food practices such as gmos into the union. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the world expo 2015 in milan. the theme of this exhibition is "feeding the planet, energy for life". it focuses on the paradox between the serious problems of malnutrition in some parts of the world and the growing phenomenon of obesity in others. the resolution therefore stresses the importance of agriculture adapted to global challenges. i would stress that fisheries, alongside agriculture, have an important role to play in meeting these challenges.
in writing. ‒ i had to vote against this motion for a resolution because, while it is full of good intentions - namely to feed the planet while protecting the climate - the solutions and measures proposed evade the real issues and the solutions advocated tend towards the most complete unrealism. so if food security is a real issue, to defend its principle without defending food sovereignty is like trying to use drilled barrels to transport water. i am also pleased that this proposal advocates organic and family farming, but i can only note the complete contradiction between this proposal and the ttip negotiations, as well as the fact that the reality of the models now being imported into europe is being ignored. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european dairy industry, and the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the dairy industry. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution which is made up of wishful thinking but which is in complete denial of reality.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. it's a public health issue, but it's also an economic, environmental and geopolitical challenge, for today, but also for future generations. the milan world fair offers us the opportunity to create a buzz around this subject. at european level, we need to pool our best practices and our research and development capacities in agronomy in order to invest in the future.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 milan world expo opened on 1 may with the theme 'feeding the planet'. this is a question that concerns europeans, of course, but also citizens of the world. european food security policy must be part of a global vision. the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change. the world organization of agricultural markets must be re-designed taking into account the two main aims of the common agricultural policy, namely to guarantee food security and to save the living fabric of farmers and their families, both in our own country and in the poorest countries. a targeted global food stock system is also needed, consisting of emergency stocks to reduce hunger and stocks to regulate commodity prices. this system should be managed by the un through its world food and agriculture organization, fao.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution conceals the hypocrisy of the eu's food and agricultural policy bodies behind good intentions. it aims to promote a reliable and sustainable agricultural sector throughout the union, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment and family farms supported by a dynamic, fairer, internationally sustainable and properly financed common agricultural policy . one of the most important is the need for food security. however, small-scale farming models cannot be adopted in france or the united states, where 48 million people are struggling to feed themselves and receive food aid. food sovereignty is essential for food security and the models advocated in this resolution do not contribute to it. moreover, these very good intentions are far from the actual policy pursued by the union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution conceals the hypocrisy of the eu's food and agricultural policy bodies behind good intentions. it aims to promote a reliable and sustainable agricultural sector throughout the union, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment and family farms supported by a dynamic, fairer, internationally sustainable and properly financed common agricultural policy . one of the most important is the need for food security. however, small-scale farming models cannot be adopted in france or the united states, where 48 million people are struggling to feed themselves and receive food aid. food sovereignty is essential for food security and the models advocated in this resolution do not contribute to it. moreover, these very good intentions are far from the actual policy pursued by the union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against it. the desire to fight world hunger is a good goal. the report points out that 925 million people are hungry on this planet, including 79 million in europe, where 79 million live below the poverty line. parliament has decided to promote with this text traditional agriculture on a human scale, creating jobs and social links, which is based on a low use of chemicals, and wants to promote organic farming. but these objectives, in which i can find myself, do not correspond at all to the model which the european union is supporting in europe. in france, more and more factory farms are being built, and the transatlantic partnership hoped for by the european union will put our sanitary standards at risk. these are more demanding and safer than those applied in the united states. what will happen to the organic? so there is a complete contradiction here. in addition, there can be no food security without national sovereignty, which is always undermined in the projects of parliament, which wants to assume the role of international mastermind.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. there is a very large gap between this report and reality: although it is commendable to want to fight malnutrition, this project does not take into account the sovereignty of the member states and advocates a model very far from the reality of agriculture as practiced in europe.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, the world expo on the theme 'feeding the planet, energy for life' will be held in milan. indeed, hunger and malnutrition are the number one cause of death and the greatest threat to world peace and security. unfortunately, this world exhibition is a showcase for the major groups involved in productivist agriculture, from gmos to pesticide manufacturers to junk food companies. macdonald is the second sponsor of this exhibition. this model cannot feed humanity sustainably because it destroys agricultural ecosystems. the resolution is fairly accurate in its assessment of the food situation. and the solutions proposed, such as the promotion of small-scale agriculture, high-value organic farming or agroforestry, are appropriate and effective. unfortunately, these are not the ones that are being promoted in milan. the resolution's expressed support for an exhibition which contradicts its principles is therefore strange. i'll hold off.
in writing. ‒ there is a very large gap between this report and reality: although it is commendable to want to fight malnutrition, this project does not take into account the sovereignty of the member states and defends a model very far from the reality of agriculture as practiced in europe. i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the resolution aims to strengthen food security, combat waste, develop agriculture in the third world and protect soils. this is a non-binding resolution which takes the opportunity of the 2015 world expo in milan to encourage the union to promote these actions. on the one hand, the union promotes global free trade and austerity, which encourages junk food behaviour. the commission is also concerned about the continuing food insecurity in the eu and the 79 million people who still live below the poverty line, while 2.8 million people die from diet-related diseases such as obesity. so there is no mention at any time of food sovereignty, the only condition for food security. the proposal also supports an agricultural model which does not correspond to the development of agriculture in the union. the resolution does not go so far as to call into question the change in the situation since 1992. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the milan 2015 world expo, whose theme is 'feeding the planet, energy for life'. while the millennium development goals are to be achieved this year, the resolution recalls that agriculture and food security are key elements in achieving the poverty reduction target. according to the fao, 898 million people worldwide are undernourished, while waste is still high in industrialized countries. the resolution calls for action to improve food security in developing countries and asks the commission to set binding targets for member states to combat waste throughout the food supply chain.
in writing. ‒ on the occasion of the opening of the 2015 world expo in milan, whose theme is 'feeding the planet, energy for life', meps wanted to comment on the importance of this year's theme. i am glad that i voted in favour of this resolution. the exhibition will raise the important issues of population growth and how to ensure the long-term food needs of citizens in europe and the world. these issues also raise environmental and health issues and invite new ideas from member states and european and international bodies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of our resolution on the holding of the milan world fair 'feeding the planet, energy for life'. in this context, we recall that in a world where the population is constantly increasing, food security remains a major issue, and that there are still places in the world where people are unable to eat enough and properly. this is all the more scandalous when you consider that 30% of the food produced worldwide is ultimately wasted! the year 2016 should be designated as the 'european year against food waste' and member states should be called upon to take action to reduce this scourge.
in writing. ‒ at the milan world expo 'feeding the planet, energy for life', the european parliament wanted to give its views on food security. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. every region of the world must be able to develop its own agriculture. we also affirm the need to tackle food waste throughout the agri-food supply chain by setting ambitious, clearly defined and binding targets. moreover, the volatility of food market prices poses both serious food security problems, which can have considerable geopolitical implications, and problems of sustainability of jobs and income from the activity. the socialists stressed that the common fisheries policy, the cap's historical sister, also feeds europeans and the world's population, providing them with a secure supply of protein and jobs. fisheries, like agriculture, must be based on sustainability, both for the preservation of natural resources and for the health of the people it feeds.
in writing. ‒ the desire to fight world hunger is a good goal. the report points out that 925 million people suffer from hunger worldwide, including 79 million in europe, where they live below the poverty line. parliament has decided in this text to promote traditional agriculture on a human scale, creating jobs and social links, based on a low use of chemicals, and to promote organic farming. but these objectives, which i can agree with, do not correspond at all to the model which the european union is supporting in europe. in france, more and more factory farms are being built, and the transatlantic treaty, which the european union hopes will endanger our sanitary standards. these are more demanding and safer than those applied in the united states. so there is a complete contradiction here. in addition, there can be no food security without sovereignty, which is always undermined in parliament's projects. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution condemns the recent atrocities in northern nigeria and calls on the nigerian authorities to fight boko haram. it welcomes military cooperation between chad, cameroon and niger and supports regional cooperation in africa. however, there are many reasons why i cannot vote in favour of this text. the proposal is based on the assumption by the member states of responsibility for african migrants. it calls on the international community to set up a european system to manage flows.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this motion for a resolution raises more problems (interference) than it solves, since the support is purely moral. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. the resolution condemns the massacres by boko haram and calls for greater international cooperation with nigeria. the situation is indeed more than urgent: since 2009, 22,000 people have died because of boko haram, 2,000 women have been kidnapped, 1.5 million people have been displaced and 300,000 nigerians have fled violence. moreover, boko haram has recently pledged allegiance to the terrorist group islamic state, and it is essential to curb its global expansion. the resolution supports the nigerian government and calls for the strengthening of the army and multilateral cooperation between states, in particular to stop the flow of arms to neighbouring countries. nevertheless, this resolution applies the principle of interference, which i oppose in the name of the sovereignty of the nations. i therefore decided to abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in nigeria. the democratic progress of the country is undeniable. the recent election of president muhammadu buhari, the opposition candidate, is a clear example of this. however, the threat from the terrorist group boko haram is growing by the day. the group has even claimed allegiance to the islamic state. the disappearance of more than 270 female students is a tragedy that cannot happen again. boko haram is seriously undermining the political stability of nigeria and the region as a whole. this resolution stresses the importance for the international community to join forces against boko haram and against terrorism. we can fight this scourge together.
in writing. - i preferred to abstain on this resolution. indeed, boko haram has turned nigerians into cannon fodder. on january 10th, a 10-year-old girl was used to carry out a suicide bombing, killing 10 people. the next day, two women carried out a similar attack, killing four people and injuring more than 40. this is what we call an ideology: in the name of total war, human life is dehumanized, it no longer counts, and the culture of death becomes a religious creed. i would like to express to the nigerian people my full support in this war they must wage every day against terrorism. because i support nigeria, i will continue to respect the sovereign will of the nigerian authorities not to call for international military assistance to fight boko haram. in the voice of its president, jonathan goodluck, nigeria has proudly and freely expressed its commitment to freeing itself from the yoke of terrorism, calling for un member states to contribute to the humanitarian aid and social reconstruction that nigerians so badly need.
in writing. ‒ this resolution strongly condemns the atrocities committed in nigeria by the terrorist group boko haram against civilian, governmental and military targets, which may constitute crimes against humanity, and expresses its solidarity with the nigerian people in the face of such barbarity. whereas the european union must mobilise all the means at its disposal to provide nigeria with political, development and humanitarian assistance in order to put an end to the threat posed by boko haram and to ensure the development of the country and its democratic consolidation; for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. since 2009, boko haram's criminal activities have reportedly caused the deaths of 20,000 people. an estimated 300,000 nigerian refugees have also fled the violence. the terrorist sect targets all groups of the nigerian population indiscriminately and has pledged allegiance to the islamic state group in the first half of 2015. in this chaotic context, nigerian power now appears to be weak. that is why the european parliament has a role to play in supporting the consolidation of parliamentary democracy in that country. i particularly support the desire to do everything possible to prevent radicalisation and its root causes.
in writing. ‒ the unprecedented violence perpetrated by boko haram has caused the death of more than 22,000 people since 2009. the united nations estimates that 1.5 million people, including 800,000 children, have been displaced by the violence in borno, yobe and adamawa states. more than 300,000 nigerians have taken refuge in northwestern cameroon and southwestern niger. the european parliament resolution condemns in the strongest terms these barbaric acts. nigeria's newly elected president muhammad buhari will have to keep his campaign promises and deploy all the means at his disposal to restore stability and security throughout the country and tackle the root causes of this unnamed terror. finally, europe must also be vigilant in denouncing the atrocities committed against women by boko haram, whether physical violence or the prohibitions against them, including access to education.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution condemns the recent atrocities in northern nigeria and calls on the nigerian authorities to fight boko haram. it welcomes military cooperation between chad, cameroon and niger and supports regional cooperation in africa. however, there are many reasons why i cannot vote in favour of this text. the proposal is based on the assumption by the member states of responsibility for african migrants. it calls on the international community to set up a european system to manage flows.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution condemns the recent atrocities in northern nigeria and calls on the nigerian authorities to fight boko haram. it welcomes military cooperation between chad, cameroon and niger and supports regional cooperation in africa. however, there are many reasons why i cannot vote in favour of this text. the proposal is based on the assumption by the member states of responsibility for african migrants. it calls on the international community to set up a european system to manage flows.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs and security has called for the release of mr genscher, who was arrested in the uk on suspicion of being involved in a terrorist attack. we therefore welcome the regional military cooperation of chad, cameroon and niger. but we reject the european union's wish to interfere, as is apparent from this resolution. the resolution calls for 'more vigorous measures' to combat alleged corruption in the nigerian army. there is clearly a willingness on the part of the european union to take advantage of this conflict in an attempt to put pressure on the nigerian authorities. i shall therefore abstain for that reason.
in writing. - i abstained. it is necessary to fight against boko haram and their massacres, and we support the nigerian authorities in their actions. however, we also condemn the european interference suggested by this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ presidential elections have just ended in nigeria despite boko haram attacks and intimidation. the resolution calls on the new government to establish greater regional cooperation to combat the terrorist group. it highlights the root causes of nigeria's problems (inequality, human rights, poverty, corruption, education, health, sharing of resources and especially oil) rather than seeing it as a simple interfaith conflict. but it also calls for support for the chadian army, local religious leaders and the eu's crisis management instrument. nothing will be said about the eu's responsibility in these same crises. the cotonou agreements are even described as ensuring the development of the country. the battle of this government is first and foremost the fight against the growing inequalities that facilitate the recruitment by boko haram, including child soldiers. beyond europe, it is the responsibility of the international community and the un to determine the responsibilities of third countries in organizing and financing terrorist groups in the region and the responsibility of multinational corporations and governments, including european ones, in the hoarding of wealth and the deepening of economic, social and cultural tensions that favours boko haram and its ally daesh. i abstain
in writing. ‒ it is necessary to fight against boko haram and their massacres, and we support the nigerian authorities in their actions. however, we also condemn the european interference suggested by this motion for a resolution. i abstained.
in writing. the resolution aims to condemn the massacres by boko haram while strengthening international cooperation with nigeria. the situation is indeed urgent: since 2009, 22,000 people have died because of boko haram, 2,000 women have been kidnapped, 1.5 million people have been displaced, 300,000 nigerians have fled violence... the resolution supports the nigerian government and calls for the strengthening of the army and multilateral cooperation between states, in particular to stop arms flows to countries bordering nigeria. the resolution also calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. however, in accordance with a long tradition in this parliament, the resolution is not without interference. some points suggest that the orders are intended to put pressure on the nigerian government in its favour. respecting the principle of non-interference, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution on the situation in nigeria which condemns the massacre of innocent civilians by the islamist sect boko haram. the text recalls that these terrorists carry out armed attacks, suicide bombings, sexual violence and kidnappings against civilian, governmental and military targets. since the abduction last year of 276 high school girls, most of them christian girls, an additional 2,000 women have been kidnapped. the resolution calls on the nigerian government and the international community to mobilize to find and release the abducted persons. it also calls on the newly elected president to deploy all means at his disposal to neutralize boko haram.
in writing. the resolution on the situation in nigeria addresses the root causes of problems in nigeria such as inequality, human rights, poverty, corruption, problems in education, health, or the issue of sharing resources, especially oil. also mentioned are recent elections, which went rather well, as well as problems related to pollution, gender equality and anti-gay laws. i voted in favour of this relevant and balanced resolution.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the very worrying situation currently destabilising nigeria, the european parliament wished to denounce the atrocity of the situation. in this resolution, which i strongly support, meps have condemned by a very large majority the current violence in nigeria, including the use of children for violent purposes. parliament called on the international community to react and organise itself to help these populations and to organise firm action to put an end to this violence and to combat the threat posed by boko haram.
in writing. ‒ the resolution condemns the massacres perpetrated by boko haram. i support this initiative but strongly condemn the various obvious attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of this sovereign country. it's getting irritating to study these moralizing texts. i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ nigeria is the most populous and ethnically diverse country in africa. the abuses of boko haram, and particularly the violence against women, must of course be strongly condemned. but far from being limited to this condemnation, the text raises the question of the root causes of nigeria's problems. among them, first of all, inequality in a country where 10% of the population controls 90% of the country's wealth and in particular oil. poverty, corruption, violations of human rights, especially those of women and homosexuals, the death penalty and deep gaps in education and health keep the population in misery. we know that poverty is the breeding ground for radicalisation. i voted in favour of this resolution which also calls for a regional response in accordance with international law and welcomes the successful holding of the presidential elections.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, we are not magistrates, judges or lawyers here, and it is not for us to decide the guilt or innocence of the accused who are tried by the indonesian courts. but we are public officials, elected in our nations by citizens to represent values, which today command us to demand from the indonesian authorities that our citizens, like all the defendants, have the right to fair trials, respecting the law and the procedures of the defense, all things that have not been granted to a french national who is now threatened with execution in indonesia. we are elected public officials who have a duty to condemn the death penalty, as you have just done. the death penalty is banned by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we are also elected officials and human beings who have a duty to express our indignation at the gruesome staging of executions in indonesia today, as in other countries you have mentioned, commissioner. we're running out of time. the european union is a partner of indonesia. we held a dialogue on human rights between the european union and indonesia in jakarta last november. we have concluded a cooperation and partnership agreement with indonesia. we are making funds available to indonesia, through the regional funds, for its higher education, for its good governance. we cannot ignore the indonesian authorities. i therefore call on european officials - some of whom should be in jakarta today to defend european citizens - to go beyond the extremely polite and dignified communiqués and diplomatic approaches which have so far failed to produce results. this is a very important issue today for european citizens who ask for our help. i am counting on you to convey to the indonesian authorities a message of firmness which in no way violates their sovereignty or their right to fight narcotics and drugs. however, the death penalty for a french citizen, as is currently being carried out by the indonesian judiciary, will not be the end of this fight.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, a country is great not only because of its power but also because of the brilliance of its ideas, its causes and the generosity it brings to the most important moments of its history. ladies and gentlemen, this declaration is not mine: it was signed by robert badinter when he was keeper of the french seals in 1981. well, that is the same message i want to send, on behalf of the european parliament, to the indonesian authorities. yes, mr. president widodo, you can be great, your generosity can burst into the world's face, if your power serves life. you wanted to send a strong message to the citizens of indonesia and the rest of the world? it's all right. no one can doubt your strong will to eradicate drugs and their traffic. you have just executed eight citizens of the world: two australians, one brazilian, four africans and one indonesian. according to the association together against the death penalty, there are about 100 prisoners on death row in indonesia. what more do you want to prove? do you know the degree of suffering, the intense psychological torture that death row inmates and their families go through? endless years of waiting for a trial that is not really a trial, years of hoping for a glimmer of humanity in the eyes of their tormentors, years of hoping for a awakening of the conscience of justice, so that it is just and determined to bring out the truth. the unbearable seconds when the prosecutor rejects all appeals and announces the cruel, cold, disgusting sentence: death! i would like to address a message to serge atlaoui, a french citizen living in my department who is currently on probation. serge has been suffering from this unbearable psychological pain for ten years. his jailers have already kind of killed him psychologically, so much so that he feels guilty about being alive. no, serge, you're not guilty, not guilty of wanting to live, not guilty of wanting justice, not guilty of wanting to see your four children again, not guilty of the suffering you and yours are enduring. it's you, serge, i'm thinking of, your wife, your children and your family, who are waiting for you. hold on, serge, france is with you, europe must be with you. that's the message i want to send you. jean jaurès said: "the death penalty is contrary to what mankind has thought of and dreamed of for two thousand years". in europe as elsewhere in the world, because no man is totally responsible... (the president withdraws the speaker)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would first of all like to thank all the political groups for agreeing to put this debate on our agenda, as requested by the gue/ngl group. many of us here are committed to the fight against the death penalty. we would be failing in our responsibility if we did not act immediately. on tuesday evening, eight people were executed, one indonesian and seven foreigners. fourteen executions have taken place since the beginning of the year, compared to none in 2014 and only five in 2013, after a five-year moratorium. in indonesia, as in other countries, the death penalty is being used again, mainly for drug trafficking. according to the attorney general of indonesia, the country is waging a war against horrible crimes that threaten the survival of the nation. there is no justification for this barbaric punishment, especially since it is aimed at lamp-workers, small smugglers who are often poor and vulnerable, often foreigners and deprived of the basic rights of consular assistance and translation. there aren't many drug lords on death row. worse, the indonesian constitutional court had agreed to hear on may 12 the appeal of the two australians executed on tuesday. 125 death row prisoners are currently languishing in indonesian prisons. 57 for drug trafficking. among them were 27 foreigners, including 4 europeans, all convicted of drug trafficking. the case of serge atlaoui is emblematic. a 51-year-old artisan welder, employed at an indonesian laboratory, denies knowing that the laboratory manufactured ecstasy. his indonesian employers filed for a review of their lawsuit and got it. they are therefore not threatened with execution, at least in the short term. the same for the five chinese, also sentenced to death in the same case. several witnesses, including police, tend to exonerate mr atlaoui, but these witnesses were not taken into account. the indonesian president is an uncompromising nationalist, who wants to give the impression of someone who refuses to give in to international pressure. he did, however, in extremis, for a filipino national. in indonesia, the case of serge atlaoui has reignited the debate on the death penalty in the press, especially in the jakarta globe, the leading indonesian newspaper, which is wondering about the price indonesia will have to pay in terms of image due to these executions. yes, this fight is universal: in indonesia, in the united states and also in europe, where viktor orban now says he supports the reintroduction of the death penalty. it is therefore important that we respond together and that we continue to do so.
we are here today to discuss the case of nadya savchenko, whose unconditional release we are calling for, because it is both a humanitarian and a political case. it is a humanitarian case, since nadya savchenko has been on hunger strike for more than three months now, putting her health at risk, but it is also a political case, since she was kidnapped in ukraine, held as a prisoner of war in russia and we, in the framework of the european union, have made specific demands in the minsk agreements. these demands have just been renewed at the summit between the european union and ukraine, they were made by the high representative, mrs mogherini, and they are now clearly echoed by all the political families in this house. we are waiting for a gesture from russia, a promise to implement the measures taken to make the minsk agreements a reality. it is also a signal in relation to the policy of the european union, which is also supported and endorsed by the united nations. we therefore ask the president of this house to address president putin so that nadya savchenko can finally be released and be given the means to return to her country, ukraine.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, human rights are one. their use for purely political purposes destroys them. we must denounce the violations of human rights on both sides. we cannot use it for political and partisan purposes. otherwise, we are violating human rights. as regards the technical question of parliamentary immunity, i believe that mrs savchenko was elected to parliament afterwards, when she was already in prison, but i may be wrong. of course, you have to keep an eye on the situation. i only want to say that, having myself visited donbass as a parliamentarian, i was accused of being a terrorist and i do not know what they did with my parliamentary immunity. as for minsk, i have the figures for the prisoners. the numbers of so-called "separatist" prisoners are higher than the numbers of ... (the president withdrew the floor)
author. mr president, yarmouk is a symbol: first of all, of the palestinian resistance. built to house some of the 800,000 palestinian refugees expelled following the nakba in 1948 and the adoption of un resolution 194 on the right of return of palestinian refugees, the camp has become a city of up to 180,000 people, with schools, hospitals, public buildings and commercial arteries, and benefiting from unrwa's assistance in health and education, among other areas. yarmouk also became a symbol of social mixing, as many impoverished syrians benefited from the camp's social facilities. it is also a symbol of the damage and the international cost of the non-resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict. another symbol of the damage caused by the syrian conflict and its consequences for palestinian refugees: as of 2011, most of the refugees from yarmouk have fled elsewhere, the camp being very close to damascus. symbolic of the situation of the half million palestinian refugees in syria, half of whom have been displaced and 80,000 have taken refuge in neighbouring countries, which now host nearly 4 million refugees from syria. it is also a symbol of the complicity between the forces present in syria, because the fighters of the "islamic state" group could not enter this camp without the complicity of the forces of al-nusra and probably also without the syrian army. yes, today the situation of the palestinians in yarmouk is tragic, since they are deprived of all humanitarian aid. unrwa, whose funding has been drastically reduced, no longer has access to the camp. the ravages of the fighting are compounded by the scarcity of water, food, and medicine. today, at least 170 people have died of starvation in yarmouk. yes, the international community must react, and the european union must put its full weight on the scales so that the palestinians in the yarmouk camp do not bear the brunt of a conflict which is not theirs and from which they must be protected.
mr president, i am opposed to this resolution because it does not reflect the reality of the situation at all. it is not acceptable to put all the forces on the same plane. the palestinian refugee camp in yarmouk is occupied by armed islamist groups, whether the islamic state group, the al-nusra front or other rebel groups, most of whose members are neither syrians nor palestinians, but jihadists from all over the world. you mention the palestinian group ansar bait al-maqdis among the rebel groups, but you seem to be unaware that on 19 april this group agreed to join forces with syrian loyalists in their fight against terrorism. the text thus reveals our ignorance of the situation on the ground. that is why, rather than voting on useless and partial resolutions, it might be more desirable for a delegation of meps to go to the area to talk to the various local actors.
author. mr president, algeria is a large country, a strategic country. i am french and franco-algerian relations are still marked by france's colonial past. (comment by dominique martin: "not a colonial past") algeria wasn't a french colony, was it? denying the facts to that extent... there are limits, though! the algerian authorities are facing an unprecedented social movement against shale gas. hydraulic fracturing could cause unprecedented damage in the south of the country, where water shortages are already dramatic. the groundwater is not renewed anymore because of the lack of rain. the lives and survival of the people of this region are at stake. we don't respond to such a mobilization with repression. the algerian authorities need to hear this. charges of illegal assembly or pressure on the judiciary are contrary to algeria's international commitments. it's time for this country to respect freedom of association, freedom of assembly and the right to protest. in algeria, as elsewhere, dialogue with the european union on human rights must not be a mere word. the algerian authorities must release all peaceful protesters, human rights and labour activists. this is a signal we are waiting for, because social mobilizations will continue around these issues that are vital for the planet. the idea that shale gas can replace oil is an illusion, and some countries have already experienced it. on the eve of cop21, this message must also be heard by the algerian authorities.
the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to recall the crucial role algeria is currently playing in the fight against terrorism in the sahel. it is also important to remember that algeria is an indispensable economic partner for the european union. but we must tell the algerians the truth: no, you cannot continue to have a human rights and justice policy like the one you are pursuing. algeria is a great country, the algerians are a great people. the activity and liveliness of this algerian society are important. the algerian state must therefore take account of this liveliness and allow a policy in favour of human rights. i ask the commissioner to include a subcommittee on human rights in the eu-algeria association agreement. that's how we can advance the algerian state.
mr president, i would like to reiterate what you said about the council's presence because it is not the first time. you must know that the latvian presidency has repeatedly adopted the same attitude in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i therefore think that this is a global problem which must be dealt with properly because the council does not respect the functioning of the european institutions. i think this is a very serious problem and i wanted to stress this point again.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for being with us. i would also like to thank mrs cora van nieuwenhuizen, even though she is a member of the alde group, because, in any case, on behalf of the previous mandate, those who were present during the previous mandate know how difficult the question was. commissioner, i very much appreciated your strong words. i hope that they will guide you in the trilogue and that when you are dealing with, perhaps - who knows? - with states that are somewhat reluctant, you will use the same kind of words in front of them. i think that cora van nieuwenhuizen has achieved a balanced result with a great deal of work also from the other political groups. this is worth noting. on the other hand, i personally would have preferred an even more determined role for esma. the supervisory authority was set up precisely so that there would be no evasion in the internal market. so in the definition of the many technical standards, esma will have a role, that's true. the institution will also have the ultimate arbiter role in defining the critical indices - i think this is a very crucial point - namely all indices which are not linked to an exchange rate or interbank but which have an impact on financial stability. it is also entrusted with the management and monitoring of the public register of benchmarks, and esma will have a role in the event of non-compliance by a competent authority. i think this is really going in the right direction. i would like to draw attention to the question of the budget of esma, which, like that of all these supervisory authorities, is always under a little bit of constant threat. if the council were here, i would tell the council too. there will be a difficult balance to be struck between supervision and close supervision in view of the influence of certain indices and proportionality in view of the number of indices. it will therefore be gradually, in my view, that we will be able to correct the situation in a pragmatic way. anyway, thank you all and good luck with the trilogues.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the debate on this opinion on benchmarks, one is tempted to find the outcome of this report, which provides for supervision alone, disappointing. the initial conclusion is, however, that financial indices must be more strictly controlled in order to avoid the scandals of the past. i regret that the threshold for the critical indices has been set too high and that the really binding part of the regulation applies only to libor and euribor. but, beyond that, i would like to denounce, once again, certain commercial banks at the heart of financial scandals, which force us to act. the libor scandal is just one of many market manipulations, such as the gold price or the forex. it is in addition to the repeated scandals of hsbc, money laundering, aiding tax evasion, indecent bonuses, subprime mortgages, etc. the more legislation is introduced, the less the private banks are constrained by the state and the more they prosper on its back. the few billion euros in fines are small compared with the tens of billions of euros in profits that fraudsters make each year. the real question is how to break the infernal dynamic of borderless finance. for patriotic and serious economists, this is obvious: to be effective, controls on capital movements across national borders must be re-established, in particular to limit speculation and short selling.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur because this is a technical but critical subject. in the end, we are here today because of the euribor scandal and the libor issue, because these critical indices can jeopardize the stability of financial markets, weaken their functioning and, in the end, have a real impact on the financing conditions of the economy. that is why it was urgent for the european union to act. but of course we are faced with a compromise, and i too regret that the powers of the supervisory authority - an authority which demonstrates day by day the soundness of its analyses and recommendations - have not been further strengthened both in terms of the definition of the critical indices and in terms of their supervision. i also regret that the member states have too much leeway in defining so-called non-critical indices. i would like to make one final point, mr president, if i may. the european union is developing a demanding legislation and it intends to check its equivalence with the legislation of other parts of the world on the basis of what exists without taking into account the progress we are going to make here, referring only to the work of the icso. i think there is room for manoeuvre here, and we should have gone further; but i also wish the negotiating team good luck.
mr president, this catalogue of basic principles and good feelings is intended to give hope to a part of humanity and dignity to many. but this resolution is, in the present state of world geopolitics and the financialisation of the economy, completely unworkable and largely utopian. who controls the use of these funds? how can we not see that many dictatorships are doing rather well with the consent and complicity of our democracies or, worse, of the big industrial, commercial or oil corporations that control these markets and sometimes these regimes? no self-criticism about our own model, about our actions, about our political mistakes in foreign policy. the failure to speak today about immigration and the regulation of flows or the shared corruption between north and south only worsens the imbalances, multiplies human disasters and, in the end, solves nothing. we must stop this neo-colonialism which is essentially humanitarian and too often commercial in nature, if we are to get out of this world hypocrisy as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to smuggling, trafficking is a direct consequence of european policy. this widespread traffic is made possible by schengen, and in particular by the abolition of internal customs. schengen is the explosion of tobacco trade. so you are directly responsible for this situation. some people want schengen, schengen i, schengen ii, especially in france, such as nicolas sarkozy. today, i believe that if we want to stop the traffic directly, we must put an end to schengen once and for all, and we must not have schengen i or schengen ii. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i believe that today, unless we put in place the principle of a domestic policy, so that the states themselves take over their security and police, we will never be able to put an end to trafficking. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, you mentioned schengen, and we have just told you that it is not exactly the area of schengen's competence, but there is one country, the united kingdom, which is not in schengen. do you believe that there is no cigarette traffic in the uk, when the uk is not a member of schengen? don't you think there's a little inconsistency in what you're saying?
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr lavrilleux, we are not going to rewrite history. if you are in favour of a europe which abolishes all its legal means of controlling not only the tobacco trade but also all other trade, particularly the problem in the mediterranean, then i think we have still not understood that guaranteeing the sovereignty of the states means putting in place a new policy which aims precisely at strengthening the states.
mr president, commissioner, i am simply repeating principle no 1 of the world health organization protocol, which states that there is an irreconcilable and fundamental conflict between the interests of the tobacco industries and those of public health policy. article 17 (c) of the convention clearly states that the parties - and therefore the european union - must reject all partnerships and agreements with the tobacco industry. i think that the legal situation is clear: if we continue to negotiate, we are in contradiction with european law and with the international law that we signed in 2004 and that came into force in 2005. so we have a legal reason to stop. fraud is not to be confused with counterfeiting. the fraud is organized by the tobacco industry, it allows them to make money. counterfeiting, on the other hand, costs him money. that is why the tobacco industry is turning to the states and the european union: to make money. today we must not support the fraudsters, that is to say, we must not support the tobacco industry, which is a real mafia. today, i am therefore asking you very clearly to stop all negotiations with the tobacco industry. it is against the interest of public health and against the interest of international law. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i agree with you completely, we have to do the work. but what about the money that the commission and olaf recover and send back to the member states? it is the tobacco industry which carries out controls in the states to check for counterfeiting, that is to say, it is the gangsters, the tobacco traffickers, who themselves organise the fight against counterfeiting on their own trade. it's a scandal, though. is it olaf's job to do this? no, that's not his role! in fact, we can see this clearly today with the judge who has to check at the level of belgium what is the state of play in the dalli case. all olaf staff have been called in to check on the illegal wiretaps. today olaf is disqualified.
the question is "blue cardboard". i spoke on the difference between fraud and counterfeiting; the world health organization acknowledges that fraud is organized, for example, by philip morris itself. it is very clear that the networks that reach europe go directly through russia, for example, and now through other channels. that's a known fact. they're organizing the fraud themselves. but today, counterfeiting is the one that hurts them because it costs them money. that is where the scandal lies today. do you understand the difference between the two when in fact, the who clearly acknowledges philip morris' responsibility in organizing its own fraud?
mr president, new technologies are undoubtedly a democratic means of giving everyone equal access to culture and information. however, this should not obscure the real problem, which is the steady decline in reading in europe. the question of the revival of reading is very much in the forefront of this debate, but i remain convinced that reducing vat on digital books is not the appropriate solution to the problem. as such, directive 2006/112/ec, which states that reduced rates cannot be applied to digital services, must be maintained as a planned vat reduction in this sector will harm a whole part of our economy, i.e. bookshops, especially independent ones, and the indirect jobs that result from them, in printing and publishing. i have seen this recently in my own country, france, with the closure of the chapitre bookshops and the loss of more than 500 jobs. this reduced vat rate is in fact only favouring the large american multinationals such as amazon and google, leaders in this digital market, which practice tax optimisation in europe and thus create unfair competition. the real questions we have to ask ourselves today are simple: how can we revive reading in europe? what resources do we have to support our bookshops and sustain thousands of jobs? finally, how can we effectively combat the tax evasion strategies of the large multinationals, which are putting the european union more and more into the position of the victim rather than the actor?
mr president, commissioner, if your predecessors had listened to this european parliament, we would not be here. for many years we have been calling for the vat rate to be aligned between the paper and the digital books. it took the court of justice to condemn two member states before this debate was revived and brought back to the fore in the college. we must go all the way and we must go fast because there is no reason why this divorce between different technologies should serve those who want to share the benefits of culture and reading. but we also have to make sure that, fundamentally, this technological neutrality is going to be there. i think that the court of justice should also take account of this wish expressed here by the legislator, particularly when new cases are brought before it, even though we have not yet amended the vat directive. i have heard some very confusing things in this debate and i think we must be clear. in the digital single market, we also want to see this as an opportunity for a serious review of our tax practices. but just because we want a reduced vat rate for e-books does not mean that we want to give up real taxation for the internet giants, who enjoy comparative advantages by tax dumping or tax optimization. let's not mix up all the debates. let us take each of these issues seriously and here, commissioner, we ask you to act quickly to ensure that technological neutrality is respected, which makes it possible, among other things, to contribute to the development of culture, reading, freedom of the press and the expansion of the digital world in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, can anyone imagine for a moment that a picasso work could be classified differently depending on whether it is a magnificent ceramic, a superb collage or a remarkable canvas? the same must be true of another form of cultural property, the book. the paper book benefits from a reduced rate of vat because, when this was decided, digital books did not exist. believe me, just as television didn't kill the cinema, the digital book won't kill the paper book and therefore the booksellers. commissioner, you have heard, we are almost unanimous in calling for a reduced vat rate for the digital book, so let's decide quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last wednesday jean-claude juncker presented his programme for the european union's migration policy. it has become a little aware of reality by proposing that the member states should each accept a distribution of refugees according to objective criteria, in short, to show a minimum of european solidarity. but the bar was clearly too high for some european leaders, most notably french prime minister manuel valls, who said this weekend that he was against the quotas allocated to each country. however, we have been saying it for weeks and we have been saying it again and again, that as migrants die in the mediterranean, the response to this scourge will be european or it will not be. when the european commission finally takes the first step, france does not take its responsibility and adopts a totally harmful attitude, like britain, poland and hungary. today, france, the land of human rights, is not at the rendezvous. it must not be afraid of the populists and the far right. we cannot accept to side with the europe-haters. so, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot keep saying: 'it is europe's fault' and at the same time refuse to listen to it when it is itself at the meeting.
mr president, we are witnessing in france a phenomenon linked to the negotiations with the united states and the transatlantic market. we know the development of factory farms, with thousands of animals, either for milk or for meat. we have had the farm with the 1 000 cows in the somme, the farm with the 1 000 slaughtered calves in creuse, the farm with the 2 000 animals in touraine, the 20 000 hens in picardy, the 12 000 pigs in gironde, and so on. it is the us model of the feed-batch that is spreading even before the treaty is signed, which does not bode well after it is signed. you should also be concerned that people are actually hostile to these factory farms because they are concerned about the way these animals are raised and the products used. our fellow countrymen, and many farmers elsewhere, have indeed urged the large distributors to boycott the milk from this so-called farm of the 1,000 cows. once again, the people are organizing against the harmful effects of your policies. as i said earlier, producers are also organizing to fight the pressure of the big box office.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we all have a common objective in this house: we want to break the link between the exploitation of mines and armed conflict. and we have a wish: that our parliament should rally as widely as possible around ambitious legislation, which can be applied, come into force and make a real difference in the conflict zones. this legislation will therefore eventually have to be supported by the commission and the council. the european parliament believes that traceability should be mandatory for all key players in the sector. that is the meaning of our vote in the inta committee. if we continue to adopt this approach tomorrow, every minerals importer, every smelter or refiner in europe will now be required to certify that their imported minerals are clean, that they are not from a conflict zone. at the same time, european smes will receive financial support to establish traceability of these minerals and thus be awarded a 'conflict-free' label. we have a meeting clause and after three years we will be able to take stock of this regulation and assess very concretely what has worked and what has not. the commission will therefore be able - and this is the meaning of the amendment i will table tomorrow - to increase the obligations, including the obligation to inform, and we will also be able to increase the number of minerals covered by this legislation. this european legislation can then serve as a model for creating positive dynamics in other regions of the world. my colleagues have said that we have lessons to learn from the dodd-frank act. we know that there is indeed an embargo on the mines in the south of the congo, and that this is not going in the right direction. i think that our legislation and our approach can serve as a model and that at the international level, at the un, we will have to agree on the question of natural resources, which belong to the planet, to the people of the countries and which must therefore be taken into account in a sustainable way. as you will have understood, madam commissioner, we have an ambitious and voluntary approach, but i hope that this approach will be put into practice to really change things on the ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this draft regulation lays down a laudable principle, namely that of not encouraging the financing of armed groups which take part in guerrilla and terrorist actions. however, it will lead to unilateral sanctions against european companies importing minerals from conflict zones. the new rules will increase the cost of processing considerably. and we can even anticipate a certain boomerang effect, thus encouraging the import of processed goods from third countries containing disputed minerals from conflict-zone mining. the race for the supply of rare metals is on. so we should not be naive and hope that some regulation will dry up the financing channels of the armed groups. apart from satisfying our good conscience, this draft regulation will not solve any of the issues in the field of peacekeeping. finally, before regulating in the name of morality, let the european union first control the use of its funds in certain areas! i am thinking in particular of the misappropriation by the polisario front - an independence militia - of funds allocated to humanitarian aid for the tindouf camp in western sahara.
mr president, commissioner, it is urgent to use the weapons of human and environmental law against the most opaque and dirtiest trade in the world, based on the over-exploitation of human beings and the subsoil and on the plundering of the wealth of regions in africa, such as the great lakes, which is accompanied by criminal extortions against the populations that this trade encourages and finances. to believe that those who are plundering the african continent in this way will conform to a voluntary certification framework is at best naïve, at worst complicit in crime. we need a binding and binding mechanism with ethical, social, moral and environmental standards. they're just human. otherwise exploitation, a form of colonial rule, will prevail. that is why we must strengthen the text further, with a certification that is mandatory for all actors in the production, supply and processing chain and that applies to all minerals.
mr president, commissioner, we were all there when dr mukwege spoke of the horror of what was happening in his country, the horror of the consequences of blood minerals. i think we've probably all had a tear. we all got angry, but what have we become since then? we have a european commission that does the minimum and we have a parliament that is becoming cynical. we cannot, in the name of the instrumentalisation of administrative measures, fail to combat the horror that reigns in a number of regions. the diligence system as it is constructed is precisely a system that must be applied to the entire supply chain, precisely to reduce costs, and precisely to ensure traceability. the system of due diligence is precisely a system which places the greatest part of the responsibility on the main actors who are the strongest, the most involved. so let us stop being cynical and act, and not wait for the news on television to scandalize us and finally act. for once we can act to save people without costing companies dearly, let's do it!
mr president, commissioner, our sakharov prize winner, dr mukwege, has already been mentioned in this debate. what does it tell us? he tells us that ambitious regulations are needed to break the link between minerals and conflict. that was last year. last month, with the resolution commemorating the dramatic collapse of rana plaza in bangladesh, we called for legally binding legislation on due diligence, traceability and transparency of the entire supply chain, to improve working conditions, health and safety of workers. tomorrow we will have the opportunity to put our words and deeds into action by adopting a text which will guarantee a fully responsible supply of the european market, with a real and positive impact on the ground. that is why i am calling in particular on our liberal and epp colleagues to be consistent in voting on the amendments we have tabled, to put the european union on the path towards greater protection of human rights and individuals, in accordance with its principles and values.
mr president, from the beginning of this debate we have all denounced the profoundly inhumane nature of the mineral trade, but we cannot simply denounce it. what our african friends in particular expect of us is that we act, that we act concretely and hold the importers of minerals to account. the text of the committee on international trade is insufficient. that is why we are fighting to make this text more rigorous. we cannot be satisfied with a voluntary and only voluntary mechanism. the need to go further is to create a duty of care for all companies along the entire supply chain, from extraction to marketing. the debate on whether to extend the scope of the regulation to other minerals is therefore also important because these questions will arise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think this debate is more than symbolic. europe's response must be equal to the challenge. others have done so, starting with the united states, as has already been said. we have a historic responsibility. we shall have to take it up tomorrow when we vote. let us live up to the idea of the european union that our partners have for themselves.
in writing. the european parliament is due to vote on a regulation to introduce a self-certification mechanism for companies importing tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold. the trade in these minerals is known to cause serious conflicts over control of their exploitation and causes considerable environmental damage. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. as parliament's position currently stands in the committee on international trade, only 5% of companies in this sector would be subject to this verification mechanism, namely refineries and smelters. the right-wing and far-right parties are using fallacious arguments to refuse to extend the scope of application to all companies. traceability cannot be effective, both from the point of view of economic information and transparency for citizens. if europe wants to cut off the sources of funding for armed groups and help people in sub-saharan africa who have been forced to flee their countries in war, parliament must ensure that information on the trade in conflict minerals is traceable.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, thank you to our vice-president for presenting this much-awaited strategy for the digital single market. we have to be aware that we are experiencing a new industrial revolution of considerable scale because everything will be digital. digital technology will affect the entire economy, industry, commerce, education, health, as well as spatial planning and the way we live together. it is therefore of great importance and must be done without delay. the development of the digital single market will indeed create growth for all our countries and also contribute to reducing inequalities between citizens, provided that the widest possible access to the internet is available, wherever one is in europe. this is a fast-moving industry. no one's gonna wait for us. either europe is on the move, or we are doomed to become a mere digital colony, and that is not desirable either for our companies, which want to be able to invest in trust, or for our citizens, who also expect europe to provide better protection of their data and real cybersecurity. i would like to raise three points. first of all, digital is about creation. europe must be a digital creator and not just a consumer, that is to say - as you said, mr vice-president - it must support copyright markets and guarantee copyright. the future of innovation must therefore be anticipated in a smart way. then there's the training. the digital skills of students and employees need to be increased, while supporting digital entrepreneurship and young start-ups. it is essential that this strategy takes into account what has already been done on this issue of training, which was one of the seven objectives of the european digital agenda. finally, the networks. the european commission has stated that it is necessary to create this framework which is favourable to private investment in networks. this is essential because we need to have as much ambition as possible for this digital single market.
mr president, transforming european society is the arrogant conclusion of the commission perched high up, far from the concrete realities of our fellow citizens. in the text i have mentioned almost 50 times the language element that our appointed commissioners prefer: national barriers. of course, since they do not claim to belong to any nation, it is difficult for them not to despise the nations. i also noticed the inconsistency in your numbers. just one example: in the commission's communication you announce an additional 415 billion euros for the gdp of the european union, whereas in your bible, which is the study on the cost of non-europe, you announce a gain of 520 billion euros. a hundred billion difference between the two texts. where did they go? are you becoming realistic? in conclusion, you want to transform european society by breaking down national boundaries, whether tangible or intangible. here is your real enemy: the nation. your wishful thinking is no longer echoed anywhere. while we recognise the importance of the digital market and the economic potential it represents, we should never assume that it promises the moon.
mr president, the european union therefore has a great ambition: to establish a digital single market. if we want to remain a powerful player in the world of tomorrow, we must not just, as you do, put consumers first online. we must also encourage and encourage the development of our producers, which is a much more difficult task, but one which has been totally neglected. we also know that fraudulent companies in the digital world will use the most fragile and least structured countries to develop fraudulent activities from these countries to all other countries of the european union. the non-payment of vat in internet commerce is already a scourge. this is done in particular by sorting into samples or by assignment of ip numbers located abroad via applications. there is an urgent need to act before tax revenues collapse. finally, forcing france to raise the vat on digital books from 5.5% to 20% is outrageous. this measure, imposed forcefully by brussels to make the digital single market possible, already shows the unveiling of this project. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr president, you have sold us this in all the areas that the european union has touched and, in all these areas, unemployment has been the consequence, but also despair, deindustrialization and the collapse of our power. look what happened. i gave the typical example of the digital book: the digital book had a vat rate of 5.5%, but it is being raised to 20% precisely to comply with the orders from brussels. you see that this is not a measure that will help anyone, quite the contrary.
madam president, i also refer to article 11 cited by my colleague. i believe my colleague has committed - but he has some excuse - a libel against me because i have not rigorously beaten anyone. i am - and we are - often the target of so-called journalists who betray the rules of their profession a little and who, for example, intercept private correspondence by photographing with telephoto lenses the letters or personal letters we may write in the chamber and who, as in the case of the demonstration to which our colleague refers, try to spy on our private conversations by means of micro-perches. i would like to say that for the last 33 years i have been answering courteously the questions - including the most indiscriminate and often the most hostile - that all journalists ask me. i answer their questions in front of their microphones. but the spy bugs, yes, i hook them with my umbrella and i break them! hello, good hearing man!
in writing. ‒ this text is intended to endorse the proposal adopted by the commission on this subject. these safeguard measures have different trade defence advantages and establish uniform conditions. however, safeguard measures must remain a national competence and not be subject to a supranational power. although the measures proposed are mostly positive, i cannot vote in favour of this text and i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this proposal is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance.
in writing. this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. the purpose of this regulation is to consolidate, on a permanent basis and without substantial amendment, the substance of council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 of 19 december 1972. if this does not bring about any substantive changes, it is to be expected that safeguard measures should remain the responsibility of the member states. it is for the sovereign member states to decide their policy on international trade and not for a supranational entity. however, as switzerland is a partner in europe and a country bordering france, i shall abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. it is a simple codification which makes it possible to initiate a commercial defence. however, this codification must be the responsibility of each sovereign state and not of the european union. that is why i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ codification of legislative texts is a kind of compilation of different european regulations that deal with the same subject. the aim of codification is to simplify and make european legislation more accessible. i voted in favour of this report on the codification of the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report for several reasons. first, it would be necessary to clarify the very concept of a safeguard measure which is a trade defence measure whose interest derives from national jurisdiction. the measures provided for in this report are good in themselves; however, this decision must remain national.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation, which lays down the detailed rules for the implementation of the safeguard clauses and precautionary measures provided for in articles 22 to 27 of the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. the implementation of those bilateral safeguard clauses requires uniform conditions and allows the commission to adopt immediately applicable implementing acts where, in duly justified cases and in the case of export aid having a direct and immediate effect on trade, imperative grounds of urgency so require. i have voted in favour of this text, as this report proposes merely a codification of existing legislation without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ the european union has close political and economic relations with switzerland. economic and trade relations between the eu and the swiss confederation are governed by a free trade agreement signed in 1972. in the interests of clarity and transparency of the law, the european parliament has codified the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement in a simple manner, without substantial changes. access to the rule of law will thus be simplified and the implementation of the agreement improved.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. the safeguarding of national sovereignty is a priority for me. this proposal implies that supranational institutions should restrict imports of a product. i believe, on the contrary, that commercial policy is one of the royal domains which should remain in the hands of the state alone.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this question because i think that such a decision should remain the responsibility of national authorities, especially when we know the importance of cross-border relations between france and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with the swiss confederation. it was really just a codification, but i think that the european union has rendered safeguard measures sterile as a means of defending trade against unfair competition. practice shows that the european union does very little to defend the interests of its member states against the actions of third countries. this prerogative should therefore be the exclusive responsibility of the member states, in order to better protect our economy and our jobs.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerns the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. this proposal is similar to the one adopted by the commission on the same subject. these safeguard measures contain various advantages, a form of protectionism for example, and they establish uniform conditions. however, safeguard measures must remain a national competence and in no case a matter for a supranational authority. even if some of the proposed measures are very positive, the substance of the text is not acceptable. so i decided not to.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej duda, on safeguard measures in the framework of the agreement between the eec and the swiss confederation. in the context of the effort to simplify european law, the aim is to codify a number of existing provisions on the subject, in order to integrate them into a single, clearer and simpler text. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a very large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation. the proposal concerns the detailed rules for the implementation of the safeguard clauses and precautionary measures provided for in articles 22 to 27 of the agreement between the european economic community and switzerland, signed in brussels on 22 july 1972. it therefore merely codifies the existing texts without changing their substance.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 of 19 december 1972 on a permanent basis and without substantial amendment to its substance. if this proposal for codification does not bring any new substance, it should be remembered that the policies relating to safeguard measures, i.e. trade defence mechanisms, must remain the responsibility of the member states and not the responsibility of the european commission, whose policy on international trade is known to be harmful. this is all the more important as it is a country bordering france. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because if safeguard measures are legitimate, since they are trade defence measures, i believe they should be a matter for the sovereignty of each state and not the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the proposal concerning the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with the swiss confederation. it's about codifying them. but i cannot support this kind of initiative. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. the european union seeks to subject the member states to its decisions.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote: although it is a good measure, it should remain a matter for the member states and not be decided at european level. that is why we abstained.
in writing. ‒ codification is the process of grouping together normative texts of various kinds into collections on a given subject for the purpose of simplification, clarity and transparency. the commission proposal concerns the codification of the regulation on safeguard measures relating to the association agreement between the eu and the swiss confederation. the association agreements are only intended to impose free trade on our neighbours. these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time. so even though it is only a technical report, i am voting against it.
in writing. the purpose of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the swiss confederation is to codify council regulation (eec) no 2841/72 of 19 december 1972 on a permanent basis and without substantial amendment to its substance. if this proposal for codification does not bring any new substance, it should be remembered that the policies relating to safeguard measures, i.e. trade defence mechanisms, must remain the responsibility of the member states and not the responsibility of the european commission, whose policy on international trade is known to be harmful. this is all the more important as it is a country bordering france. i cannot therefore vote in favour of this text. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the safeguard measures provided for in the bilateral agreement between the eec and the swiss confederation. it is a purely technical codification text designed to simplify existing law and has the same legal consequences as the original version. the aim of this agreement is to regulate trade relations between the two institutions.
in writing. ‒ it is a codification of safeguard measures. these are trade defence measures which must remain a national and not a supranational competence, even though i would not necessarily be opposed to them on the merits. i therefore refuse to recognise the european union's competence in this area, but i do not want to oppose these measures directly, so i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of the codification of the regulation on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement with the swiss confederation. this interinstitutional procedure simplifies and clarifies the existing regulation.
in writing. ‒ this draft legislative resolution aims to approve the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. by introducing administrative penal sanctions, the convention aims to combat the piracy of encrypted television decoders and to reduce the wide disparity between states. however, this convention is open to the participation of the european union, which is tantamount to certifying the legal personality of the european union. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because the purpose of this convention is to extend the scope of the framework established by directive 98/84/ec outside the union in order to combat threats to protected services.
in writing. this report should lead to the adoption by the european parliament of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. it is in fact a legal framework applicable to all eu member states to combat illegal devices that allow unauthorised access to pay-tv services and to protect these services. this convention takes over the main elements of the 1998 directive. this directive was extended to other non-eu countries in 2001 by the council of europe. moreover, the union takes as its legal basis article 207 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) on the common commercial policy, even though the eu is not a member of the council of europe. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union is open to ratifying this convention, which is tantamount to approving the recognition of the european union's legal personality. i am totally opposed to this recognition, which is the prelude to the creation of a genuine european federal state, and i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of the council decision to approve the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. the convention establishes a legislative framework to combat illegal arrangements allowing unauthorised access to pay-tv services. it was urgent to reach an agreement in order to prevent the widespread fraud in this area. our companies must be protected and the principle of intellectual property must be respected. i voted in favour of the council's decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services would imply recognition of the eu's legal personality, which would give the eu a quasi-state status and represent a further step towards federalism. as a patriot, i support the sovereignty and will of the people. i cannot therefore be in favour of a european federal state.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to approve the ratification of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. considering that it is necessary to provide legal protection for all services whose remuneration depends on conditional access, i.e. making access to the protected service subject to prior individual authorization, and that it is equally important to combat any commercial activity relating to equipment which allows or facilitates access to services without authorization or payment from the provider and to introduce sanctions, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services is based on the directive of the same name adopted by the european union in 1998. the european parliament's approval of the council decision on the convention will finally make it possible to have a common regulatory framework for the whole of the european continent, in order to punish the means of illegally accessing television and radio content. i welcome this vote by parliament which is in favour of an effective fight against piracy. it stresses that television and radio services are not free of charge as soon as they are available on the internet.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. the convention protects electronic pay services against piracy by prohibiting any commercial activity of manufacturing, distributing or advertising smart cards and other devices that circumvent protected access to pay television, radio and internet services. the union already had a directive on this subject, but ratification of the convention enables it to take part in a larger group of states and to comply with the same rules as its neighbours in the council of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. once again, the union wants to be given a role which i believe is reserved for the states alone. in order to preserve our national sovereignty, i voted against yet another attempt by the union to regulate our markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it implies full recognition of the legal personality of the european union, which i am totally opposed to.
in writing. ‒ this draft legislative resolution aims to approve the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. administrative criminal sanctions will be introduced to combat the hacking of encrypted television decoders and to reduce the wide disparity between states. this convention also serves to certify the legal personality of the european union, which i still find unacceptable. for all these reasons i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pavel svoboda on the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services, which makes it possible to combat more effectively the piracy of audiovisual, radio and paid services on the internet. it also makes it possible to approximate the different laws of the member states in this field. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. the main aim of this recommendation is to provide legal protection for all services whose remuneration is conditional on access, i.e. making access to the protected service subject to prior individual authorisation.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to secure the adoption by the european parliament of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. it is in fact a legal framework applicable to all eu member states to combat illegal devices that allow unauthorised access to pay-tv services and to protect these services. in fact, the convention essentially repeats the 1998 directive on the subject. since some european countries are not members of the eu, the eu wanted to extend the directive to these countries, which was done in 2001 in the framework of the council of europe. however, i formally dispute the possibility for the eu to conclude this convention on behalf of the union, denying it any legal personality. moreover, the legal basis chosen by the cjeu is that of article 207 of the feu treaty on the common commercial policy, an area of exclusive competence of the eu, even though the latter is not a member of the council of europe. i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ accepting this convention would imply recognising the european union as a legal person, which we strongly oppose. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ conditional access is a system in television broadcasting which limits access to certain channels, programmes or services to one or more subscribers or users. it combines broadcasting or transmission equipment, receiving devices or communication terminals, decoders, decryptors with the individual identification medium (subscription card, ip address control, updated software and database, etc.). a directive on the legal protection of conditional access services was adopted in 1998. it prohibits any commercial activity in the manufacture, distribution or advertising of smart cards and other devices that circumvent protected access to pay-tv, radio and internet services. in order to extend the provisions of the 1998 directive and to create a common and effective framework at european level, the council of europe drafted a european convention on conditional access services in 2001. the report proposes to approve this convention. i vote for it.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to secure the adoption by the european parliament of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. it is in fact a legal framework applicable to all eu member states to combat illegal devices that allow unauthorised access to pay-tv services and to protect these services. in fact, the convention essentially repeats the 1998 directive on the subject. since some european countries are not members of the eu, the eu wanted to extend the directive to these countries, which was done in 2001 in the framework of the council of europe. however, i formally dispute the possibility for the eu to conclude this convention on behalf of the union, denying it any legal personality. moreover, the legal basis chosen by the cjeu is that of article 207 of the feu treaty on the common commercial policy, an area of exclusive competence of the eu, even though the latter is not a member of the council of europe. in these circumstances i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services. the report endorses the conclusion of the convention, which aims to create an effective common framework at european level to combat illicit means of access to pay-tv and radio services, particularly when transmitted via the internet. the council of europe had drawn up a first text in 1999, which was contested by the european commission. the european court ruled in favour of the commission in an october 2013 judgment. the council therefore adopted a new decision in april 2014, which was welcomed by the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which establishes the european parliament's agreement to the conclusion of the convention on the legal protection of audiovisual and information services operating on the basis of conditional access. the convention includes provisions on the production, import, distribution, rental, possession or maintenance of illicit equipment for commercial purposes and is fully consistent with the existing directive 98/84/ec on the same services. i saw no reason to oppose this agreement.
in writing. ‒ to vote in favour of this convention would be to recognise the legal personality of the european union. i am not in a position to say whether this is the case, because i believe that only states can be parties to conventions. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ in order to combat internet piracy and protect access to pay-tv, radio and internet services, i voted in favour of the parliament's recommendation on the conclusion of the european convention on the legal protection of conditional access services and conditional access services.
in writing. ‒ this convention is open to the participation of the european union. this is tantamount to recognising the legal personality of the european union. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich is requested again this year. this one is accused of insulting a magistrate. article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union provides that members of the european parliament shall enjoy the immunities accorded to members of their national parliaments. however, viktor uspaskich was caught red-handed, which is why the constitution of the republic of lithuania allows for prosecution. moreover, it would appear that we cannot establish a fumus persecutionis on this occasion, that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of harming the member's political activity. i therefore voted in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentarian's immunity in accordance with the committee's opinion on the substance.
in writing. at the time of the alleged infringement, mr uspaskich was a member of the lithuanian parliament (seimas). on 28 july 2013, viktor uspaskich reportedly told reporters questioning him in the arrival hall of vilnius airport that the judges who sentenced him on 12 july 2013 were cowardly and criminal and had not shown any independence. however, this act is an offence under article 232 of the lithuanian criminal code. however, it is possible to make a connection with mr uspaskich's presence in the second round of the presidential elections in his country, so i abstained on the text because i had previously voted for referral back to committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich. our mandates as members of the european parliament require us to set an example. so the immunities that are associated with it are only intended to allow free speech, free from outside pressure. this does not in any way justify or imply the possibility of making statements which fall within the scope of the penal code of the state concerned. the facts alleged against viktor uspaskich do not concern his activity as a member of parliament and are not intended to harm it. that is why the parliamentary immunity of mr viktor uspaskich must be waived.
in writing. - viktor uspaskich is once again facing the justice of his country. he's now charged with contempt of court. according to article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the union, members of the european parliament enjoy the same immunities as members of their own state. viktor uspaskich has been the subject of a flagrant offence, which, in the constitution of the republic of lithuania, allows for the prosecution of him. it therefore appears that the waiver of parliamentary immunity is not politically motivated in this case. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague laura ferrara on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich. this procedure, requested by the member concerned, is a formality to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work.
in writing. i abstained on the request for waiver of the immunity of viktor uspaskich, because i would have preferred referral to committee, as requested by mr verhofstadt. the lithuanian judiciary criticises mr uspaskich for stating that the judges who sentenced him on 12 july 2013 were cowardly and criminal, and that they had not shown independence. however, mr uspaskich argues that the committee was not properly informed of the exact context of his statements, that he had in fact only quoted the president of lithuania, and asks that the committee be allowed to hear the recording of his statements.
in writing. i abstained on the waiver of immunity because the request is officially motivated by the fact that mr. uspaskich allegedly insulted a magistrate. so, at first sight, this complaint seems to me to have no connection with the exercise of the european parliament's mandate. but i cannot rule out the possibility that this is in fact political persecution. for the record, i voted against the previous request for the waiver of mr uspaskich's immunity, which was clearly seen as a political persecution by lithuania of a russian-speaking citizen.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich, lithuanian alde mep. he is accused of telling the press that the judges responsible for his conviction in july 2013 were cowardly and criminal and had not shown independence. it seems to be proven. the procedure followed by the lithuanian judiciary raises many questions. it should be noted that viktor uspaskich is a russian-speaking minority, which is very discriminated against by the current anti-russian baltic governments. in view of these doubts about the proper functioning of the lithuanian judiciary and in view of the protests of the person concerned who denounces a judicial harshness against him, i vote against.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to lift the immunity of mr viktor uspaskich following a request from the lithuanian prosecutor's office. he is accused of having committed an insult to a magistrate during a discussion with journalists. he allegedly called the judges who sentenced him in 2013 "cowards" and "criminals who did not show independence". however, this prosecution is likely to be linked to his presence in the second round of the presidential elections. the facts complained of are reported statements which, in my view, should not be subject to prosecution. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of viktor uspaskich. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of the committee.
in writing. ‒ the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux concerns a judicial investigation into the financing of nicolas sarkozy's campaign in the 2012 presidential election. the deputy director of this campaign, jérôme lavrilleux, should be questioned under the regime of police custody in order to establish his responsibility for the alleged false invoicing. the lifting of his immunity is necessary for the french judiciary to be able to continue the judicial procedure. the facts which could be reproached to jérôme lavrilleux took place before he took up his duties as a member of the european parliament. moreover, we cannot suspect the existence of a fumus persecutionis, as the legal proceedings do not appear to have been initiated with the intention of harming the member's political activity. i therefore voted in favour of the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentarian's immunity in accordance with the committee's opinion on the substance.
in writing. this report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux (ump) following a request by the prosecution in the context of the case of the financing of the 2012 presidential campaign of nicolas sarkozy and the scandals of the "bygmalion" case. the facts are numerous: falsehood, use of falsehood, breach of trust, attempted fraud, complicity in concealment and concealment of these offences, illegal financing as well as concealment and complicity in concealment of this offence. they are, however, unrelated to his activity as an mep and he is therefore liable to have his immunity waived. moreover, the seriousness of the facts alleged, and our own exemplary conduct at a time when european citizens are losing more and more confidence in politics, encourage us to support the lifting of immunity. so i voted to repeal it.
in writing. ‒ after the 2012 french presidential election, it emerged that nicolas sarkozy's campaign accounts were far in excess of the legal campaign spending ceiling that was imposed on all candidates. this is what justified the rejection by the national commission on campaign accounts and political financing of the campaign accounts of the candidate nicolas sarkozy. it was in this context that the french courts opened an investigation into the system of invoicing which suggests that fictitious benefits were paid by ump when they should have been included in the campaign account. given the status of jérôme lavrilleux as deputy director, the french magistrates wish to question him under the regime of custody in order to establish possible responsibilities in the campaign team. since the alleged acts predate his election as a member of the european parliament and there is no reason to believe that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of harming his political activity, i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of mr jérôme lavrilleux.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of personal immunity is to guarantee the independence of members in the performance of their duties. the presumption of false invoicing by mr lavrilleux does not relate to the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament but to activities previously carried out before his election to the european parliament. furthermore, the existence of a fumus persecutionis cannot be established. so i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the request for the waiver of the immunity of jérôme lavrilleux. each member of the european parliament and, more generally, elected politicians owe the citizens full transparency. public funding must be monitored from its origins to its destinations. this is of paramount importance in the confidence of citizens in their representatives and is one of the foundations of my political commitment. the facts complained of do not concern the parliamentary activity of the member in question, his immunity must be waived.
in writing. ‒ in 2012, jérôme lavrilleux was the deputy director of the presidential campaign of nicolas sarkozy. lavrilleux is now one of the main suspects in a judicial investigation into the financing of nicolas sarkozy's campaign. the lifting of parliamentary immunity would allow jérôme lavrilleux to be heard in police custody in order to answer the current suspicions. the aim is to allow the french judiciary to continue the judicial procedure. the events for which jérôme lavrilleux is suspected took place before his election to the european parliament. i do not see any evidence of a fumus persecutionis, and the waiver of parliamentary immunity does not appear to have been undertaken with the intention of harming the member's political activity. i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague heidi hautala on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux. this procedure, requested by the member concerned, is a formality to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux in the context of an ongoing investigation into forgery, use of forgery, breach of trust, attempted fraud, complicity in concealment and concealment of these offences, illegal financing and concealment and complicity in concealment of this offence. mr lavrilleux is suspected of having participated in a fraudulent invoicing scheme for the 2012 presidential campaign of nicolas sarkozy. the alleged facts are not related to his office as an mep. the proceedings against him do not relate to opinions or votes he has expressed in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, and there is no sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of prejudicing the political activity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr lavrilleux's immunity, as the request is based on the fact that he allegedly participated, as deputy director of mr sarkozy's 2012 presidential campaign, in the setting up by the bygmalion group of a false invoicing system. however, that alleged system of false invoicing and the allegations against mr lavrilleux do not relate to the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament but to his previous activities as a member of the campaign team set up for the french presidential election, which took place two years before his election to the european parliament. furthermore, the existence of a fumus persecutionis cannot be established, that is to say, there is no reason to suspect that the proceedings were instituted with the intention of harming mr lavrilleux's political activity.
in writing. - i voted to waive the immunity of jerome lavrilleux. legal action was taken in connection with an investigation into a fraudulent invoicing scheme linked to mr sarkozy's presidential campaign (bygmalion case). the police have conducted searches. people were interviewed, including jérôme lavrilleux, who was deputy director of mr sarkozy's 2012 campaign. the charge is that if the system had not been used to circumvent the rules limiting electoral spending, the actual cost of the campaign would have exceeded the legally allowed ceiling. jérôme lavrilleux was the deputy campaign manager for mr sarkozy. that is why the french magistrates want to question him under the regime of police custody. the doubts about mr lavrilleux being not related to the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and there being no reason to suspect that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of harming mr lavrilleux's political activity, i support the request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of immunity so that jérôme lavrilleux can be questioned by the french magistrates about his involvement in the bygmalion case and his responsibilities in the fraudulent financing of nicolas sarkozy's presidential campaign in 2012. we have of course supported this lifting of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux, french ump mp. he is accused of having participated in a false billing system for campaign expenses in the framework of the presidential campaign of nicolas sarkozy in 2012 for a total amount of 18,5 million euros. the waiver of immunity is necessary to allow for his hearing, remand in custody, and judicial supervision. given the agreement of the person concerned in favour of this measure to ensure his defence, i vote in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ jérôme lavrilleux is suspected of having organised a system of false invoices around the company bygmalion, intended to conceal certain campaign expenses and, in fine, to make the taxpayer pay for the financing of nicolas sarkozy's 2012 presidential campaign. the total amount of the embezzlement is said to be close to 20 million euros, and it clearly undermines the equality of the candidates in the last presidential election. the ump thanked him by electing him as an mep in may 2014, with the parliamentary immunity that goes with it. his responsibility, to be established by the courts, requires the lifting of this immunity, so it is necessary to vote it.
in writing. the report seeks to request the waiver of the immunity of jérôme lavrilleux following a request by the prosecution in the case of the financing of the 2012 presidential campaign of nicolas sarkozy. the facts alleged (i.e. forgery, use of forgery, breach of confidence, attempted fraud, complicity in concealment and concealment of these offences, illegal financing, concealment and complicity in concealment of this offence) being unrelated to his activity as a member, he is then liable to be the subject of a waiver of immunity. moreover, the seriousness of the alleged facts (large-scale false invoicing of campaign expenses), coupled with his live confession on a french television channel, argues for the lifting of his immunity. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jérôme lavrilleux, who had requested it. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of the committee.
in writing. ‒ the scandal involving mr lavrilleux in france is extremely serious as it concerns the financing of mr sarkozy's presidential campaign, whose campaign accounts had been rejected by the audit commission; it is important that the investigation can be followed and that the facts are established clearly. that is why i am in favour of this report, which recommends the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ on 11 july 2014, mr korwin-mikke publicly slapped a polish mep. although the alleged events took place during the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, they do not concern an opinion or a vote but an alleged infringement of the physical integrity of an official. mr korwin-mikke is asking for his immunity to be waived. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentarian's immunity in accordance with the committee's opinion on the substance.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke. on 11 july 2014, the warsaw district prosecutor's office stated that mr korwin-mikke had violated the physical integrity of mr michał boni by slapping him during an event in warsaw a meeting of newly elected polish meps, during which the victim was performing official duties in connection with his mandate as an mep. the conduct of mr korwin-mikke may constitute an offence under article 222 (1) of the polish criminal code in so far as it would have affected the physical integrity of an official. mr korwin-mikke has asked for his immunity to be waived, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ mr korwin-mikke slapped another polish mep in public, which is likely to constitute an offence under the polish criminal code. he also asked for his own immunity to be waived before the european parliament. that is why i voted for the report requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ mr korwin-mikke has injured another member of the european parliament, which may constitute an offence under the polish criminal code. according to mr korwin-mikke's statements at the hearing, there is no evidence of the existence of a fumus persecutionis. the events took place when mr korwin-mikke was already a member of the european parliament and in a clearly political context, the alleged offence and the subsequent prosecution have no relation to his mandate as a member of the european parliament. so i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr janusz korwin-mikke's parliamentary immunity because he had previously requested it.
in writing. ‒ janusz korwin-mikke slapped a polish mep on 11 july 2014 in front of witnesses. these facts do not concern a political opinion but an alleged attack on the physical integrity of an official in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. the procedure for the waiver of parliamentary immunity does not appear to have been politically motivated, and there is no particular reason to oppose it. in fact, janusz korwin-mikke himself has asked for the waiver of parliamentary immunity. i voted for the procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague kostas chrysogonos on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke. this procedure, requested by the member concerned, is a formality to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work.
in writing. ‒ the warsaw district prosecutor's office claims that on 11 july 2014, mr korwin-mikke violated the physical integrity of mr michał boni by slapping him during an event in warsaw. it was a meeting of newly elected polish meps, organised by the polish ministry of foreign affairs. the report by kostas chrysogonos states that 'in view of the circumstances of the case and the statements made by mr korwin-mikke at the hearing, there is no indication of a fumus persecutionis. if it is true that the above events took place while mr korwin-mikke was already a member of the european parliament and in a clearly political context, the alleged offence and the subsequent prosecution clearly have no connection with his mandate as a member of the european parliament.' i therefore voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of immunity because mr korwin-mikke is being prosecuted for slapping another polish mep in public. the applicant admits the facts and requests that his immunity be waived.
in writing. - i voted for this immunity waiver. janusz korwin-mikke is being prosecuted by the polish prosecutor's office for assaulting another polish mep during an event in warsaw related to the european mandate. mr korwin-mikke's conduct constitutes an offence under the polish criminal code, and he himself has requested the waiver of his immunity. that's why we supported it.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke, an unregistered polish mp. he is accused of having injured the physical integrity of mr michał boni, another mep, by slapping him. while it is true that the above-mentioned events took place while mr korwin-mikke was already a member of the european parliament and in a clearly political context, the alleged offence and the subsequent prosecution clearly have no connection with his mandate as a member of the european parliament. this character is odious and quite irresponsible for having said that "hitler was not aware of the holocaust" and for speaking out against women's suffrage. the honourable member is a disgrace to parliament. i vote for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ since mr korwin-mikke himself has requested that his immunity be waived, there is no need to object to this.
in writing. this report calls for the waiver of the immunity of mr janusz korwin-mikke. he is accused of having injured michał boni by slapping him during a meeting of newly elected polish meps in warsaw. the alleged offences took place in the course of mr korwin-mikke's parliamentary duties. such acts are punishable by imprisonment under polish law and therefore constitute a criminal offence. i have voted in favour of this report, since mr korwin-mikke himself has asked for his parliamentary immunity to be waived.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of the committee.
in writing. ‒ mr korwin-mikke himself has asked for his immunity to be waived so that he can defend himself against the charges against him for slapping an official. in these circumstances, since the report calls for the waiver of immunity, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ a new request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis has just been submitted. the criminal action against him this time concerns allegations of financial irregularities committed between 2007 and 2012 within the football team of which he was president. the offence has no connection with his position as a member of the european parliament but is related to his professional activity at the time. the procedure does not appear to have been initiated with the intention of harming the member's political activity. mr zagorakis himself wants his parliamentary immunity to be waived. the lifting of immunity therefore seems justified, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentarian's immunity in accordance with the committee's opinion on the substance.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis following accusations against mr zagorakis concerning alleged financial irregularities committed between 2007 and 2012 within the paok football club, of which he was then the president. according to the report, the underlying intention of the criminal proceedings is not to harm the political activity of the mep as the prosecution goes back several years before taking office as an mep. the member has indicated that he wants his immunity to be waived, so i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ mep theodoros zagorakis is being prosecuted as the legal representative of a football club in connection with a criminal action concerning an accident at work of an employee of paok club that occurred on 13 may 2010 in thessaloniki. given the absence of any grounds for believing that the criminal action is motivated by the intention to harm the member's political activity and the member's expressed wish to have his parliamentary immunity waived, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the case of mr zagorakis concerns an accident at work of an employee of the paok football club, which occurred on 13 may 2010, when mr zagorakis was not yet elected as an mep, and involves his prosecution for negligence and non-compliance with safety obligations at a workplace. mr zagorakis is therefore being prosecuted as the club's president and legal representative. it is clear that the alleged offence has no connection with mr zagorakis's status as a member of the european parliament, and the existence of a fumus persecutionis cannot be established. so i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis. like the other two similar votes, the offence alleged against member theodoros zagorakis does not concern his parliamentary activities and is not intended to prejudice them. it is therefore necessary that justice can operate in order to determine wrongdoing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr theodoros zagorakis because he had previously requested it.
in writing. ‒ theodoros zagorakis is again the subject of an application for waiver of parliamentary immunity. mr zagorakis is suspected of financial irregularities committed between 2007 and 2012 within a football club of which he was the president at the time. this offence had no connection with his position as a member of the european parliament but was part of his professional activity at the time. since the proceedings do not appear to have been brought with the intention of prejudicing the political activity of the member of parliament, a fumus persecutionis could not be established. mr zagorakis himself wants his parliamentary immunity to be waived. the lifting of immunity therefore seems justified, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague andrzej duda on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis. this procedure, requested by the member concerned, is a formality to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, considering that the indictment against mr zagorakis concerns alleged financial irregularities committed between 2007 and 2012 within the paok football club of which he was president at the time, and that this clearly has no connection with mr zagorakis' position as a member of the european parliament. there is no reason to believe that the underlying intention of the criminal proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of immunity because mr zagorakis is being prosecuted as the president of a football club for financial irregularities that have nothing to do with his mandate as an mep. the applicant seems to acknowledge this, since he has not defended himself before the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. - i voted for this waiver of parliamentary immunity. mr zagorakis is being prosecuted as president of paok football club, a position he held long before becoming an mep, and he wants his immunity lifted. in these circumstances, we can only support him.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis, a greek mep from the epp. he is accused of committing financial irregularities between 2007 and 2012 within paok football club, of which he was the president at the time. the alleged offence and the subsequent prosecution clearly have nothing to do with his mandate as an mep. since the person concerned agrees with the measure, i am voting in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. the report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis following the charges against him relating to alleged financial irregularities allegedly committed between 2007 and 2012 within the paok football club, which he was then chairman. the facts of the case and the prosecution began long before he took office as a member of parliament, and since mr zagorakis himself is asking for his immunity to be waived, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the competent parliamentary committee. i voted in accordance with the opinion of the committee to waive the parliamentary immunity of theodoros zagorakis.
in writing. ‒ mr zagorakis himself has asked for his immunity to be waived in order to be able to defend himself against the charges against him, due to financial irregularities within the football club he chaired between 2007 and 2012, before being elected as a member of the european parliament. in these circumstances, since the report calls for the waiver of immunity, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ consultation is a smokescreen to hide the complexity of the community's institutional functioning. these committees have never proved to be effective or representative, let alone expert. however, the union still struggles to finance and consult them. finally, these consultations are purely aesthetic since they are never followed up, rarely read. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for consultation because the committee of the regions is an eu consultative body which provides us with valuable expertise.
in writing. the treaties of the european union provide for a procedure for consulting the european economic and social committee. this request for consultation concerns the improvement of the 'functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty'. a more than revealing and cynical programme since it still denies the "no" of the french and dutch when they were consulted by referendum in 2005. i also think that it would be better to abolish this institution (the eesc), which, like its french counterpart, is of little use and activity but costs the taxpayer dearly. i therefore voted against this request.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a request for consultation of an institution created by the maastricht treaty to represent civil society at european level. the european economic and social committee, far from representing civil society from 28 member states, is in fact a place of influence for many economic and associative lobbies. finally, there is no evidence that the eesc has the power to give an opinion on questions relating to the functioning of the eu institutions. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this proposal to endorse the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the theme 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty'. the european parliament has been a key player in the debate on the future of the european union, and the european council has been a key player in the debate on the future of the union.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the ongoing reflection in the parliamentary committee on constitutional affairs (afco) on possible improvements to the functioning of the european union by exploiting the full potential of the lisbon treaty, this decision proposes to consult the european economic and social committee, which represents economic and trade union players in the european union. i have voted in favour of this text, considering that the various stakeholders, the economic and trade union players, have their place in this debate.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. i am in fact formally contesting the representativeness and usefulness of both the cor and the eesc. they have no democratic legitimacy and are a waste of money and unnecessary expenditure for the european taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text to consult the european economic and social committee on the theme 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty'. the so-called european 'comitology' is merely a smokescreen to hide the inefficiency of its administration. these committees have never yet proved their effectiveness or representativeness, let alone their expertise, and yet the union still struggles to finance and consult them. finally, these consultations are purely aesthetic since they are never followed up, rarely read.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to consult the eesc on improving the way the eu works. this consultation will provide working lines for making the european union work better through the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the subject 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty' on the basis of article 304 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the consultation of the european economic and social committee on the theme 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty' because i question the legitimacy, representativeness and usefulness of this committee. i have tabled a motion for a resolution with other members to abolish this costly body. it is also worth recalling that the treaty of lisbon, when it was still called the european constitution, was rejected by the french electorate ten years ago.
in writing. - i voted against it. the european economic and social committee is one of the many bodies created by the maastricht treaty and is supposed to represent civil society. we are questioning the legitimacy, representativeness and usefulness of these advisory bodies. we are therefore against consulting this committee.
in writing. ‒ under rule 137 of the rules of procedure, a committee may request that the european economic and social committee be consulted on general questions or on specific points. the afco committee requested an opinion on the bresso-brok report on 'improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. the request was therefore forwarded to parliament for approval. but the afco committee did not consider it useful to inform its colleagues of the reasons for this referral. i am voting against these methods.
in writing. ‒ the so-called european 'comitology' is just a smokescreen to hide the inefficiency of its administration. these committees have never yet proved their effectiveness or representativeness, let alone their expertise, and yet the union still struggles to finance and consult them. finally, these consultations are purely aesthetic since they are never followed up, rarely read. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the treaties of the european union provide for a procedure for consulting the european economic and social committee. a committee may, for example, request that it be consulted on various matters. in this case, the request for consultation concerns the improvement of the 'functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty'. a whole program... first, i reject the very existence of the eesc, which, like its french 'colleague', does not shine with its usefulness or activity despite a cost that the european taxpayer would not mind, but which, moreover, is more european than the other eu institutions (the debate then turns between those who think more europe is needed, and those who think much more europe is needed). secondly, the subject is the treaty of lisbon, adopted in france by a procedure that repudiated the 2005 referendum on a similar constitutional treaty. i could only vote against this request.
in writing. at all levels, local, national, european, economic and social (and sometimes environmental) councils are illegitimate and irresponsible institutions that cost a fortune and do not defend the public interest. we should consider deleting them and certainly not continue to ask for their opinions. moreover, only sovereign peoples should be allowed to decide on institutions. it is scandalous that attempts are being made to 'optimize' the treaties, that is to say, to overinterpret them, in order to avoid asking the people for their approval of the changes which the technocrats want to impose on them. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the subject 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty', in order to hear the arguments of the committee.
in writing. ‒ the front national has always questioned the legitimacy, representativeness and usefulness of the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, two eu bodies (not institutions) created by the maastricht treaty, one of which is supposed to represent civil society and the other local authorities. furthermore, it is unthinkable to consult them on institutional matters. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i do not recognise the legitimacy or expertise of these committees, whose effectiveness has yet to be demonstrated. inaction and procrastination remain the watchwords for these european officials, who belong to an administration whose cost to the taxpayer is constantly rising. these committees produce heavy reports that nobody pays attention to. my vote against the motion is a denunciation of the way this european bureaucracy works.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for consultation because the eesc is an eu consultative body which provides us with valuable expertise.
in writing. this vote relates to the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee (eesc) on 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the eu'. it would be better to have an independent assembly or independent experts deal with the matter rather than the overly partisan and pro-european eesc. i also think that it would be better to abolish this institution (the eesc), which, like its french counterpart, is of little use and activity but costs the taxpayer dearly. i therefore voted against this request.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a request for consultation of an institution created by the maastricht treaty to represent civil society at european level. the european economic and social council, far from representing civil society from 28 member states, is in fact a place of influence for many economic and associative lobbies. finally, there is no evidence that the eesc has the power to give an opinion on questions relating to the functioning of the eu institutions. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ it seems absurd to ask this non-democratic and inefficient body for advice on how to improve citizen participation in the european union, especially since it is because of the lisbon treaty that european leaders are currently being led to question the functioning of the union. the eesc is not a european institution, so it is difficult to see how it could legitimately discuss possible adaptations to the current institutional structure of the european union.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the ongoing reflection in the parliamentary committee on constitutional affairs (afco) on the possible developments and adaptations of the institutional structure of the european union, this decision proposes to consult the european economic and social committee, which represents economic and trade union players in the european union. i have voted in favour of this text, considering that the various stakeholders, the economic and trade union players, have their place in this debate.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. i am in fact formally contesting the role of the european economic and social council, which is an undemocratic, useless and costly institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text to consult the european economic and social committee on the subject of 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union'. i do not recognize the legitimacy or the expertise of these committees whose effectiveness has yet to be demonstrated. inaction and procrastination remain the watchwords of these european officials, who are part of an administration whose costs are constantly rising. finally, the committees have a habit of producing heavy and obscene reports which are not taken into account by many. i am trying to denounce the way this european bureaucracy works by voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to consult the eesc on possible developments and adaptations of the eu's current institutional structure. this consultation will provide a basis for further work to improve the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the subject 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union', on the basis of article 304 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ like the other front national meps, i voted against the consultation of the european economic and social committee on the subject of 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union' because i question the legitimacy, representativeness and usefulness of this committee. i have tabled a motion for a resolution with other members to abolish this costly body.
in writing. - i voted against it. as with the previous vote, we do not recognise the legitimacy, representativeness or usefulness of this committee and we believe that it should not be consulted.
in writing. ‒ under rule 137 of the rules of procedure, a committee may request that the european economic and social committee be consulted on general questions or on specific points. the afco committee requested an opinion on the verhofstadt report on 'evolution and possible adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union'. the request was therefore forwarded to parliament for approval. but the afco committee did not consider it useful to inform its colleagues of the reasons for this referral. i am voting against these methods.
in writing. ‒ we do not recognise the legitimacy or expertise of these committees, whose effectiveness has yet to be demonstrated. inaction and procrastination remain the watchwords of these european officials, who are part of an administration whose costs are constantly rising. finally, the committees have a habit of producing heavy and obscene reports which are not taken into account by many. i am trying to denounce the way this european bureaucracy works by voting. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this vote relates to the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee (eesc) on 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the eu'. the eesc, which is the consultative assembly of the european economic and social partners, should have no competence to deliver opinions, given its pro-european orientation in all circumstances. moreover, the 'evolution of the eu's institutional structure' should begin with the abolition of the eesc outright. i therefore voted against this request.
in writing. ‒ at all levels, local, national, european, economic and social (and sometimes environmental) councils are illegitimate and irresponsible institutions that cost a fortune and do not defend the public interest. we should consider deleting them and certainly not continue to ask for their opinions. moreover, only sovereign peoples should be allowed to decide on institutions. it is understandable that the institutions have been reluctant to consult the people since they expressed their rejection of the changes imposed on them ten years ago in the french and dutch referendums. it's time to respect democracy. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the subject 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the eu', in order to hear the arguments of this body.
in writing. ‒ the front national has always questioned the legitimacy, representativeness and usefulness of the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, two eu bodies (not institutions) created by the maastricht treaty, one of which is supposed to represent civil society and the other local authorities. furthermore, it is unthinkable to consult them on institutional matters. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the committee of the regions, created in 1994, was originally intended to give subnational authorities a voice in the eu institutions. eu legislation is increasingly implemented at local or regional level. but, like the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions is a fiction with no usefulness. i denounce the waste of public money in the operation of this committee and have therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for consultation because the committee of the regions is an eu consultative body which provides us with valuable expertise.
in writing. the committee of the regions is a body whose purpose is to promote direct dialogue between the regions and the eu at the expense of the nations. this request for consultation concerns the improvement of the 'functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty'. as for the eesc, i can only vote against this request.
in writing. ‒ the front national, which i represent, has always been opposed to the very existence of the committee of the regions, which is a supranational organisation which i deny any legitimacy to give an opinion on the functioning of the union's institutions. regions can only be represented at national level and not before the institutions of the european union. that is why, in opposition to anything which gives the committee of the regions political responsibility, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to reject this proposal for a consultation of the committee of the regions on improving the functioning of the eu 'by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty'. apart from the fact that the committee of the regions has no democratic legitimacy, let alone institutional legitimacy since it is only a body created by the maastricht treaty , it also lacks the necessary powers to judge the functioning and institutional structure of the eu.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the ongoing reflection in the parliamentary committee on constitutional affairs (afco) on possible improvements to the functioning of the european union by exploiting the full potential of the lisbon treaty, this decision proposes to consult the committee of the regions, representing regional and local authorities and actors in the european union. i have voted in favour of this text, considering that the various levels of regional and local government have their place in this debate.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. i am in fact formally contesting the role of the committee of the regions, a federalist instrument designed to undermine the power and sovereignty of the nation states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text to consult the committee of the regions on the theme 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty'. the committee of the regions, created in 1994, was originally intended to give subnational authorities a voice in the eu institutions. eu legislation is increasingly being implemented at local or regional level. but like the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions is a gas factory that is only brewing wind, which no one hears or listens to. i do not recognise the legitimacy, the work or the efficiency of the committee of the regions, and my vote is therefore to denounce this way of working of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to consult the committee of the regions on improving the functioning of the eu. this consultation will provide, in addition to the eesc's, other avenues of work to make the european union work better through the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on the subject 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty', on the basis of article 307 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ of course, i voted against the consultation of the committee of the regions on the theme 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty' because i question the legitimacy, representativeness and usefulness of this committee. i have tabled a motion for a resolution with other members to abolish this costly body. it is also worth recalling that the treaty of lisbon, when it was still called the european constitution, was democratically rejected by the french and dutch electors ten years ago.
in writing. - i voted against this motion. like the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions is an advisory body set up by the maastricht treaty to supposedly represent local authorities. we are questioning the legitimacy, representativeness and usefulness of these advisory bodies. we are therefore against consulting this committee.
in writing. ‒ under rule 138 of parliament's rules of procedure, a committee may request that the committee of the regions be consulted on general questions or on specific points. the afco commission has asked the committee of the regions for an opinion on the bresso-brok report on 'improving the functioning of the european union building on the potential of the lisbon treaty'. such a deliberately incomprehensible title is a warning. the request was therefore forwarded to parliament for approval. but the afco committee did not consider it necessary to inform its colleagues of the reasons for this referral. i am voting against these methods.
in writing. ‒ the committee of the regions, created in 1994, was originally intended to give subnational authorities a voice within the institutions of the european union. the implementation of eu legislation is increasingly being done at local or regional level. but like the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions is a gas factory that is only brewing wind, which no one hears or listens to. i do not recognise the legitimacy, the work or the efficiency of the committee of the regions, and my vote is therefore to denounce this way of working of the union. i therefore voted against.
in writing. as with the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions is consulted, a body whose purpose is to promote direct dialogue between the regions and the european union, bypassing the states. as for the eesc, i cannot vote in favour of a request to improve the functioning of the union in the context of the undemocratic lisbon treaty. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the committee of the regions has no legitimacy, as the region is not a relevant level of representation. the french republic knows only the national community and no opinion given by a committee of the regions can be taken into account. only sovereign peoples should be allowed to decide on institutions. it is also scandalous that attempts are being made to 'optimize' the treaties, that is to say, to overinterpret them in order to avoid asking the people for approval of the changes that the technocrats want to impose on them. i shall of course vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i support the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on the theme 'improving the functioning of the european union by exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty' in order to hear the arguments of the committee of the regions.
in writing. ‒ the front national has always questioned the legitimacy, representativeness and usefulness of the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, two eu bodies (not institutions) created by the maastricht treaty, one supposed to represent civil society and the other local authorities. furthermore, it is unthinkable to consult them on institutional matters. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i challenge the bureaucratic functioning of the european administration which, under the pretext of getting closer to the citizens, has set up institutions that operate in an opaque way. the advisory committees of the community institutions are neither effective nor legitimate but they are costing the taxpayers of the member states an excessive amount of money even though no one takes account of their reports. it is no longer acceptable that french and european citizens should pay for inefficient administrative bodies at a time when the european commission is calling on all member states to take austerity measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for consultation because the committee of the regions is an advisory body of the european union which provides us with valuable expertise.
in writing. this vote concerns the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the eu'. apart from the fact that this committee ignores nations in favour of a dialogue between the european union and the regions which the union encourages in the name of federalism, i think that, as with the eesc, the institution should simply be abolished in view of its cost to taxpayers and excessive staff expenditure in its budget. i therefore voted against this request.
in writing. ‒ the front national, which i represent, has always been opposed to the very existence of the committee of the regions, which is a supranational organisation which i deny any legitimacy to give an opinion on the functioning of the union's institutions. regions can only be represented at national level and not before the institutions of the european union. that is why, in opposition to anything which gives the committee of the regions political responsibility, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this request for consultation of the committee of the regions on possible developments and adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union. it should be noted that the committee of the regions is purely advisory on matters likely to have a real impact at local and regional level and does not judge the relevance of the functioning of the european institutions such as the commission or the council.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this request for consultation of the committee of the regions on possible developments and adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union. it should be noted that the committee of the regions is purely advisory on matters likely to have a real impact at local and regional level and does not judge the relevance of the functioning of the european institutions such as the commission or the council.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the reflection of the parliamentary committee on constitutional affairs (afco) on the possible developments and adaptations of the institutional structure of the european union, this decision proposes to consult the committee of the regions, which represents the authorities and regional and local actors within the european union. i have voted in favour of this text, since i believe that the various levels of regional and local government have their place in this debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i consider that the committee of the regions is an institution that has no place and represents the logical outcome of the european union's federalist drift.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text to consult the committee of the regions on the subject of 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union'. i would like to denounce the bureaucratic functioning of the european administration, which, under the pretext of being closer to the citizens, has set up institutions whose functioning and conclusions are opaque. the advisory committees of the community institutions are neither effective nor legitimate but they cost taxpayers exorbitantly, even though no one listens to them. it is no longer acceptable that french and european citizens should pay for inefficient administrative bodies at a time when the european commission is crying out for all member states to take austerity measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to consult the committee of the regions on possible changes and adaptations to the current institutional structure of the european union. this consultation will provide, in addition to the eesc's, other avenues of work to improve the development of the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on the subject 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union' under article 307 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ like the other front national meps, i voted against the consultation of the committee of the regions on the subject of 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the european union' because i question the legitimacy, representativeness and usefulness of this committee. i have tabled a motion for a resolution with other members to abolish this costly body. the committee of the regions' recommendations are as predictable as each other.
in writing. - i voted against it. as in the previous vote, we do not recognise the legitimacy, representativeness or usefulness of this consultative body, which we believe should not be consulted for its opinion.
in writing. ‒ under rule 138 of parliament's rules of procedure, a committee may request that the committee of the regions be consulted on general questions or on specific points. the afco commission has asked the committee of the regions for an opinion on the verhofstadt report on 'evolution and possible adjustments to the current institutional set-up of the european union'. is this the preparation of a new treaty? the request has been forwarded to parliament for approval. the afco committee did not consider it necessary to inform its colleagues of the reasons for this referral. i am voting against these methods.
in writing. ‒ we wish to denounce the bureaucratic functioning of the european administration, which, under the pretext of getting closer to the citizens, has set up institutions whose functioning and conclusions are opaque. the advisory committees of the community institutions are neither effective nor legitimate but they cost taxpayers exorbitantly, even though no one listens to them. it is no longer acceptable that french and european citizens should pay for inefficient administrative bodies at a time when the european commission is crying out for all member states to take austerity measures. the member therefore voted against.
in writing. this vote concerns the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the eu'. in addition to the fact that the committee of the regions is an institution whose objective is to ignore the national level in order to allow a direct dialogue between the union and the local and regional authorities, the 'possible adjustments to the current institutional structure of the european union' should begin with an improvement in the committee of the regions' deplorable management, since an excessive part of its budget is reserved for staff expenditure. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the committee of the regions has no legitimacy, as the region is not a relevant level of representation. the french republic knows only the national community and no opinion given by a committee of the regions can be taken into account. only sovereign peoples should be allowed to decide on institutions. it is obvious that the committee of the regions will seek to defend the region as a decision-making level, thus further attacking the sovereignty of the peoples. i shall of course vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the committee of the regions on the subject 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current institutional structure of the eu', in order to hear the arguments of this body.
in writing. ‒ the president of the european parliament proposed to consult the committee of the regions on the subject of 'evolution and possible adaptations of the current structure of the european union'. i have endorsed this approach because i consider the committee of the regions to have a key advisory role for the european institutions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the regions have their say on the subject: they constitute, in my view, an essential link between the local and european levels. we have allowed this link to become distorted for too long, and now we must pay particular attention to it.
in writing. ‒ the front national has always questioned the legitimacy, representativeness and usefulness of the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, two eu bodies (not institutions) created by the maastricht treaty, one supposed to represent civil society and the other local authorities. furthermore, it is unthinkable to consult them on institutional matters. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because this proposal for a regulation allows for the adoption of additional legislative provisions, at least for the most frequently used indices, in order to improve governance and limit conflicts of interest and any other weaknesses.
in writing. this report concerns indices used as benchmarks in financial markets. the libor scandal has made us aware of the importance of these indicators and the need to control them. there are two types of indices: those resulting from objective contributions and those calculated from nonpublic information. investors use them for their anticipation. this report deals here only with major indices such as the money market reference rates such as libor or euribor. if these indices are distorted, there can be adverse effects on financial markets as we have seen. i abstained on this text because, although the report calls for the strengthening of the power of esma and the national authorities, i regret that it does not address the indices of commodity markets or those of third countries.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation on benchmarks is a response to the various scandals linked to the manipulation of certain data. the most famous case is the libor case, in which the banks involved were fined a record amount. indeed, manipulations of the index can have serious consequences for the activities of certain financial institutions. given the magnitude of the financial sums involved, it is regrettable that this draft legislation does not cover all the truly systemic indicators with the same legal force. that is why i wanted to abstain on the vote on this text, which has been postponed.
in writing. ‒ benchmarks are used to determine the value of financial instruments, financial contracts and the performance of investment funds. they therefore have a considerable bearing on the impact of the financial market on the real economy. recent scandals have exposed the manipulation of euribor and libor, the most important benchmarks in the union. the manipulation of benchmarks can cause significant losses to consumers and investors, distort the real economy and undermine market confidence. this regulation will therefore restore the integrity of benchmarks by making their management more transparent. administrators of benchmarks will be required to register with the european securities and markets authority (esma) and to publish a declaration of compliance specifying the use of their benchmark and its reliability. they will also have liability (code of conduct) and record-keeping constraints, as well as audit and review requirements. this type of regulation is very advanced and will only exist in the european union. the negotiations will require a system of equivalence and reciprocity with reference indices from third countries. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report, which deals with the problem of the manipulation of benchmarks and the scandals that this manipulation may have generated. i certainly support the measures proposed in the report to make banks more transparent in order to prevent misappropriation. critical indices must therefore comply with the icso rules, which means that they must be handled in accordance with a code of good conduct which includes the reinforced communication of all the elements to the supervisory authorities. however, i regret that the final decision on whether an index is critical is taken by the european securities and markets authority (esma) and not exclusively by national authorities.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the creation of a common framework to ensure the reliability and integrity of benchmarks used in financial instruments and contracts. i voted in favour of this text, considering that it will improve financial governance in europe, avoid conflicts of interest and strengthen the quality of data, the methodologies used, controls and the protection of users of benchmarks.
in writing. the regulation on benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts is part of the review of the european policy on market abuse. the aim of this text is to prevent the recurrence in the future of scandals such as those caused by the manipulation of libor and euribor. the latter are benchmarks for interbank interest rates, set by the banks themselves. in order to ensure public confidence in financial markets, which are essential for the functioning of our economy, we need reliable indices. within the european union we must be able to avoid the manipulation of all benchmarks, whether in terms of interest rates, exchange rates, oil prices or macroeconomic forecasts. the broad scope of this text is therefore a good thing.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament report aims to introduce strict regulation of benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts. these benchmarks, calculated by aggregating data, may relate to interbank lending rates such as libor and euribor, oil markets or commodity markets. they are used to set the rate of many contracts and financial instruments. in concrete terms, this means that the administrators of indices with a significant impact on financial markets will be subject to the control of a college of supervisors and the european financial markets authority. in parallel, rules on internal control and the prevention of conflicts of interest will apply to non-critical index administrators. these provisions, which are a step towards the consolidation of the european financial system, now have to be confirmed by the member states.
in writing. ‒ the scandals that have erupted in the cases of manipulation of libor and euribor rates indices have shown the scale and seriousness of certain frauds in financial circles. by emphasizing transparency around these so-called systemic indices, the proposal for a regulation is a new positive element in banking regulation, which i support. however, the proposals to lower the thresholds below eur 500 billion of outstanding financial products were not incorporated in the report, making the proposal for a regulation timid and more lax in terms of calculation method and transparency for indices considered non-critical. i therefore abstained on this report, which is incomplete and does not allow for a far-reaching reform of banking regulation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the proposal for a regulation on benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts. the project is a response to various financial scandals such as libor, where the banks involved manipulated the price of this index. the proposal for a regulation merely improves the transparency of the method of calculating the benchmarks and provides the supervisory authorities with all the information necessary to ensure that they are drawn up correctly. however, this proposal does not remove the root cause of the problem, namely the conflict of interest of certain banks which are both in a position to publish the indices and to benefit from the price changes which they can anticipate in their favour.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation concerns benchmarks in the context of financial instruments and contracts. after the various financial scandals that europe has experienced since 2008, for example libor, the legislator decided to take action against banks manipulating indices. the proposal for a regulation seeks to ensure that the method of calculating benchmarks is transparent and that all the necessary information is provided to the supervisory authorities responsible for ensuring that the benchmarks are correct. however, conflicts of interest are at the root of the problem, as some banks publish indexes and profit from them by speculating on their value. so it's a crime to initiate. i abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs cora van nieuwenhuizen, on benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts. these indices, such as libor or euribor, are reference instruments in the financial system. in order to prevent manipulation of these indices, which can cause significant losses to consumers and investors, this regulation makes it possible to restore the integrity of these benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts. indeed, manipulating benchmarks can harm consumers, investors and thus weaken the real economy and market confidence. the main objective of this regulation is therefore to establish a common framework to ensure the accuracy and integrity of these indices.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. while the idea of a more stringent framework is welcome, transparency alone will not prevent deviations. it is regrettable that this text is limited to certain indications only and does not go any further, suggesting for example constraints or sanctions. under the circumstances, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ a benchmark is a value or indicator calculated on the basis of a representative set of data or information. it is used to value financial instruments or contracts, or to measure the performance of an investment fund. the london interbank offered rate (libor) and the euro interbank offered rate (euribor), which serve as benchmarks for interbank interest rates, are examples of benchmarks. any risk of manipulation of benchmarks can undermine market confidence, cause significant losses for investors and, above all, distort the real economy. the commission and parliament's report propose improving the control and governance of the referral process to avoid manipulation. the report stresses the need to combat conflicts of interest and ensure transparency. but these few efforts pale in comparison with the manipulation of these indices that has already occurred in the past. in particular, the text does not propose the creation of alternative indices measuring the real economy rather than speculative forecasts. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the libor and euribor manipulation scandal has tarnished the credibility of benchmarks and made it necessary to rethink their regulation. however, it is one thing to frame upstream the producers of evidence, it is another to sanction in a truly dissuasive way. the record fines imposed on the banks involved in liborgate, amounting to billions of euros, are clearly nothing compared to the profits generated. the proposed regulation is complex to implement and especially to monitor, not to mention the forthcoming level 2 texts. the simple transparency proposed for most indices does not always allow for detection of manipulation. a truly dissuasive sanction would involve liability for the assets of decision-makers, administrative bans for institutions found guilty and a ban on purely speculative products based on indices.
in writing. this vote concerns indices used as benchmarks in financial markets. in the wake of the libor scandal, some have become aware of the importance of these indicators and the need to control them. these are indicators on which investors base their expectations. there are two types of contributions: those resulting from objective contributions and those calculated on the basis of nonpublic information. in this case, the report only deals with major or systemic indices, i.e. those which are likely to have dangerous consequences (such as the money market reference rates libor, euribor, etc.). if these are distorted (for example by conflicts of interest), this can have a significant impact on financial markets. the report envisages strengthening the power of the european financial markets authority as well as national authorities. however, it is regrettable that it does not address commodity market indices or third country indices (only an approval from esma is required). i therefore decided to abstain on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the vote on the text on the restoration of the integrity of financial benchmarks in the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union. the postponement of this vote will allow further negotiations on this important text for investors.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation on benchmarks is a response to the various scandals linked to the manipulation of benchmarks by those who publish them. the most famous case was libor, the overnight interbank rate, for which the banks involved were fined a record amount (deutsche bank alone, for example, paid $2.5 billion to the us in april, sg, barclays and rbs $1.8 billion to the eu). the magnitude of the sums involved may make it regrettable that legislation does not cover all the truly systemic indicators in the same way. it is satisfactory that no exceptions to the scope of the regulation have been made, whereas some wished to exclude professional indexes from the scope of the regulation. however, since this is now an additional constraint on the banks, we cannot vote against it. so i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ following the successive manipulations of the benchmarks, in particular the euribor and libor indices, the european union decided to clarify the legislation in order to restore the integrity of the benchmarks. i voted for this text to protect our businesses and our consumers.
in writing. ‒ this report is a half-admission of the lack of control over the use of funds in third countries, which our delegation has been strongly denouncing since the beginning of the legislature. on the other hand, the author emphasizes the positive contribution of migrants to the development of their countries of origin... an aberration in my opinion. in addition, the report advocates the use of ppps as a lever for the development of developing countries, although it is well known that the only companies capable of providing such financing methods are western and not local. the committee on budgets has warned that blended finance could lead to a debt bubble, particularly in sub-saharan africa and the caribbean, where resources are limited. for all these reasons i voted against this report and spoke in plenary on it.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the objectives of the european union in terms of financing for development. the proposal shows that there is no control over the funds, but it only very superficially addresses the real issues concerning development, such as corruption in developing countries. the report is also a disaster for immigration policy. while the oecd countries are facing a difficult budgetary position, public aid is maintained at a very high level. and it is the pharmaceutical companies, which are already making huge profits, that are taking these funds for scientific research. the nature of world poverty has changed and a new paradigm must be found to deal with this reality, but this motion for a resolution is a hypocritical response to the challenges of development and could even contribute to the deterioration of the situation. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the silva pereira report on financing for development because it allows the european parliament to contribute to the eu's position on official development assistance (oda). the oda is essential to implement a european development policy and thus convince the countries of the south to fight against global warming in preparation for cop 21. the report notes the failure of eu member states to meet their 2005 commitments to spend 0.7% of their national income on oda by 2015 and calls for multiannual budgetary timetables by 2020 to meet this target. the report also highlights the importance of innovative sources of development finance such as the financial transaction tax and stresses the need to mobilise national resources in developing countries to manage public finances and fight corruption. i voted for this report because it is a message to the member states and to the french government in preparation for the cop 21 in december 2015.
in writing. the report calls on eu member states to meet their official development assistance targets (of 0.7% of gni). it is a non-binding text that envisages the impossible and hopes to solve all the ills (poverty, hunger, etc.) that affect the planet. while i obviously want the poorest countries to develop and to improve their living conditions (including through subsidies), i think it is more profitable to embark on a genuine policy of co-development, of controlling migration flows and of supporting governments in their fight against corruption or fundamentalism, for stable countries that guarantee security and therefore economic growth. nevertheless, the eu tries to give itself a good conscience in this text, often forgetting that it is these ultra-liberal rules that impoverish countries. the report also calls for the promotion of public-private partnerships and joint financing, which i oppose. for these reasons i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report takes stock of the eu's financing of development. it recognises that the use of official development assistance is not sufficiently monitored by the external action service and that its effectiveness has not been demonstrated. the report also highlights the positive contribution of immigrants to the development of their home countries through the growth of financial flows from the diaspora. it therefore shows that immigration benefits the countries of origin more than the countries of destination. finally, the report recommends using public-private partnerships as a lever for development. these public-private partnerships risk increasing the influence of the large cac 40 companies on the african continent. as a principle, i am opposed to the european union's external action and therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the third international conference on financing for development will be held in ethiopia in july 2015. in this context, the european parliament voted a resolution calling on the union and the member states to reaffirm their objective of allocating 0.7% of gni to official development assistance. helping countries that need financing to develop is important for the european union. the current international context calls for concrete action in development aid. the european union must be a forerunner in this field. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which, in addition to its immigrationist logic - in that it supports the supposedly positive contribution of migrants to the development of the countries of origin - is outside the realm of development policy. the report proposes the development of ppps to finance local businesses, even though only western companies are able to provide such services. the report also points to the continued desire to increase development aid by 134.8 billion dollars in 2013, a record rate without ensuring in return that anti-corruption measures are put in place: a completely irresponsible lack of control of funds! finally, nothing is specified as to the content of the transparency standards for international financial institutions, which will allow them to continue quietly to carry out opaque financial operations which, in most cases, are contrary to the interests of the people.
in writing. ‒ in the run-up to the third international conference on post-2015 financing for development and the un sustainable development goals, to be held in addis ababa in july, this report calls for an ambitious partnership to ensure credible financing for the new development goals. i believe that it is necessary to facilitate the mobilisation of national resources and to set priorities in the main development sectors, while ensuring that there are credible mechanisms for monitoring and controlling progress on the ground. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. we can be proud that 60% of the world's official development assistance comes from the european union and its member states. i would like to remind you, however, that our development aid policy must be coordinated ever more closely with our migration policy, our agricultural policy and also our environmental policy. i would also like to stress the importance of the link between security and development. taking it into account should lead us to adopt a comprehensive approach to supporting third countries, neighbouring or not, which are plagued by conflict. the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy and to the implementation of the un charter.
in writing. ‒ parliament called on eu countries to respect their commitments on external aid. first, at the financial level, the states must respect their commitment to allocate 0.7% of their gnp to development. so far only four eu countries have achieved this target, namely denmark, luxembourg, the netherlands and sweden (belgium is about to join this group). secondly, it is important to think about innovative ways of financing development. several initiatives have already been launched and need to be strengthened. i am thinking in particular of unitaid, whose more than half of the funds, from the "air ticket tax", fund access to hiv treatment in low-income countries. the idea of a financial transaction tax, which would generate funds for development, must also be put into practice. finally, the union and the states must implement win-win partnerships. the international conference on financing for development in addis ababa in july, which will set the first framework for the next global development goals, should be an opportunity for representatives of the international community to address all these issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it considers the mass reception of migrants to be an asset for development policy. on the contrary, mass immigration leads to the impoverishment of the european population and also deprives the countries of origin of many of their vital resources.
in writing. ‒ the report on financing for development sets out the union's objectives with regard to financing for development. the proposal emphasizes the lack of control over the funds but does not sufficiently address the real issues relating to the question of financing for development. more importantly, the report is a disaster in terms of immigration policy, in particular by providing for greater cooperation between countries of origin and destination in terms of migration policy. while european and oecd countries are in great budgetary difficulty, and austerity policies are increasing, public aid is being maintained at a very high level. moreover, these funds are very often used by the pharmaceutical industry to finance its scientific research. the nature of global poverty has changed and there is a need to redefine the priorities of development aid. this motion for a resolution is still too hypocritical in its approach to the problems of development and could worsen the situation even further. i voted against this report for all these reasons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pedro silva pereira on financing for development. the report stresses the need for states to play a more active role in the development of emerging economies and thus maintain their position as the world's leading donor of development aid. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on financing for development. the year 2015 will be a crucial one for global development action, especially with the third international conference on financing for development due to take place in july. the union should therefore promote ambitious sustainable development goals, taking into account new global challenges, while ensuring its financial commitment in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-binding resolution calling on the eu member states to respect the target of devoting 0.7% of their national income to official development assistance (oda), as a key instrument for financing development, and to set a precise timetable for achieving this target by 2020. in voting in favour of this resolution, i wanted, like the overwhelming majority of my fellow members of the european parliament, to stress the need to mobilise national resources effectively in developing countries. these domestic resources, which are more predictable and more sustainable than foreign aid, must be a major source of financing for the development of these countries. the resolution underlines the european parliament's wish that the european union should assert its political leadership in the process of defining the framework for sustainable development and that it should maintain its position as the world's leading contributor to international development aid. we therefore also call on the european commission, the council and the member states to do everything possible to ensure that the european union plays a leading role in the negotiations which will take place in the near future in the framework of the addis ababa international conference on financing for development.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on financing for development because it is a half-admission of the lack of real control over the use of funds. paragraph 48, for example, states in a subtle way that there is a problem with the transparent and efficient implementation of aid and funding, that there is a problem of corruption and mismanagement and that there is often a lack of 'accurate, timely and comparable data' on income and expenditure. paragraph 42 emphasises 'the positive contribution of migrants to the development of their countries of origin and calls for more effective and innovative cooperation on migration policy between countries of origin and destination; draws attention to the significant and growing financial flows of remittances from the diaspora". this pro-immigration observation ignores the fact that emigration to europe often represents a brain drain that is detrimental to the countries of origin.
in writing. - i voted against it. this report advocates migration by arguing that migrants contribute positively to the development of the countries of origin because they cause financial flows between the diaspora and the country of origin. we strongly oppose such reasoning. in addition, this report shows a lack of control over the use of funds, which is intolerable.
in writing. ‒ the report on financing for development highlights the need to combat poverty and to support the un sustainable development goals. obviously, goals are commendable. the text thus recalls the central role to be played by the united nations in the establishment of orderly and cooperative international trade, the first steps of which are being taken through 'international tax cooperation', under the auspices of the un, and an active crackdown on tax havens, tax evasion and illegal financial flows. i am, however, opposed to certain elements of the report, such as the emphasis on public-private partnerships as a means of financing and the idea that better access to international markets is a condition for development. i am voting for this text to support these ambitious tax proposals, but i regret that on every issue the rapporteurs are forced to repeat the mantras of liberal dogma which gives their text a stupid tone.
in writing. ‒ the report outlines the eu's objectives and commitments in terms of development finance but fails to establish clear rules on anti-corruption, which is the logical counterpart to the aid given to the countries concerned. this is all the more crucial given that 1.5 billion people live below the poverty line and suffer from health, education and living standards deficiencies in the countries receiving eu aid. secondly, the report rightly calls for more effective cooperation between countries of origin and emigration in the management of flows. unfortunately, much more is needed and financial aid should be conditional. it is known that most deportations cannot take place because the countries of origin do not accept to recognize their own nationals as such. the report also advocates the use of public-private partnerships in developing countries, which raises many concerns, particularly as regards the additional debt involved. for these reasons, the vote is therefore against.
in writing. this non-binding resolution is an alignment of good feelings. the rapporteur regrets that 1.5 billion people live in extreme poverty and proposes to eradicate poverty... to do this, it wants to require eu member states to respect their official development aid targets (of 0.7% of gni). if we can only support the development of the poorest countries, including through subsidies, this must not be a 'whitewashing' operation by the eu in its promotion of 'happy globalisation' to the hilt. the extreme poverty in these countries cannot be blamed by a modest disguise of the source of the situation. the report also calls for the promotion of public-private partnerships, which would only make the situation worse, and of mixed financing, which could lead to a debt bubble. finally, he highlights the positive contribution of immigrants to the countries of origin, which increase financial flows... for these reasons i have decided to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which calls on member states and other developed countries to maintain or increase their level of official development assistance. the aim is to contribute to the reduction of global poverty through economic and social development and good governance, particularly in fragile and conflict-affected states. over the period 2014-2020, the union's contribution to development finance will be eur 19,7 billion for cooperation, eur 6,8 billion for humanitarian aid, plus eur 2,2 billion from the emergency aid reserve and a contribution from the european development fund (edf) of eur 30,5 billion. only by creating conditions conducive to the personal and collective development of people in their countries of origin will we be able to avoid tragedies such as those experienced by migrants who try to cross the mediterranean and die at sea, sustained by the false hope of a better future in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on financing for development, which calls for an ambitious global partnership as a condition for achieving the sustainable development goals (sdgs). eu member states must meet their 2005 commitment to spend 0.7% of their national income on official development assistance and set a timetable for achieving this target by 2020. moreover, it is not enough to give money, it is necessary to mobilize resources effectively in developing countries. the report calls for an extension of the european commission's remit to help strengthen the capacity of the tax administration, public financial management and the fight against corruption. finally, as mentioned in the text, official development assistance cannot cover all the financing needs of developing countries, the private sector must engage in these countries and invest in a more responsible manner.
in writing. this report sets out a european union position for the international conference on financing for development, to be held in ethiopia in july 2015, which aims to prepare the post-2015 sustainable development agenda. the report calls on the eu to honour its commitments on investment and development aid (at least 0.7% of gni). the report supports measures such as taxes on financial transactions to finance development, condemns tax havens and emphasises the role of civil society. amendments from my group were also adopted, notably on taxation and the position of women. i voted in favour of this report, which i thought was a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ this report suggests that development aid funds are not sufficiently controlled. he also advocates a perverse view of development: development should not come from money sent home by expatriates or from public-private partnerships with western companies that will put developing countries even more in debt. it is obvious that these countries must themselves create wealth, just as the states of the european union, which should finally have reindustrialisation policies to ensure growth and employment. the inability of the european institutions to understand how to create wealth is once again evident both within and without. in these circumstances, i am against this report.
in writing. ‒ in preparation for the conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa in july, the european parliament adopted a report setting out the ways, means and opportunities available to the union for financing development. the text stresses the importance of combating poverty, defending human rights and promoting access to education for the populations concerned. i voted in favour of this text and support the union's role as a key contributor to international development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the post-2015 guidelines for financing development, of which the european union is the world's largest creditor. overall, we support the proposals made by the commission in its communication on the global partnership for poverty eradication and sustainable development after 2015 in the context of the international conference on financing for development. we also call for the coordination of development aid with the fight against climate change. finally, we stress the importance of improving the monitoring of development finance at global level to avoid misappropriation.
in writing. ‒ 2015 is a unique year for international negotiations on development and sustainable development (3rd international conference on financing for development in july, adoption of the new international sustainable development goals in september, and cop 21 in december). the report by pedro silva pereira is the european parliament's contribution to the european union's position on official development assistance (oda). it follows the debate in the april plenary on member states' commitments in this area. it also reflects very much the progressive values that i stand for. yes, these three events are inseparable. the success of cop 21 in paris will depend on the outcome of those that precede it. in particular, the commitments of the developed countries and therefore of the eu in the field of oda are one of the issues at stake in the run-up to these three conferences. there will be no binding and ambitious climate agreement in paris without strong commitments from developed countries on climate change. d. there is a consensus that investment will be the key to convincing the countries of the south to play their full part in the fight against global warming e. other
in writing. ‒ this report is a half-admission of the lack of any control over the use of these funds, a fact denounced by the front national since the beginning. it highlights the positive contribution of migrants to the development of their countries of origin, which is astonishing. they would contribute to the growth of financial flows between diasporas and countries of origin. the report supports the creation of funds for these diasporas and calls for further efforts to reduce the costs of capital transfers and to improve their effect on local development in the countries of origin. the report also advocates the use of public-private partnerships as a development lever for developing countries, thus favouring the only companies capable of providing these services, which are predominantly western companies. the committee on budgets warns that such mixed financing could lead to a debt bubble, particularly in sub-saharan africa and the caribbean. if we want to combat immigration and promote the stability of the continents and their autonomy, we should simply do the opposite. i am naturally opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ this report provides an update on the financing of development aid in the european union, on the implementation of the post-2015 development objectives. the report reminds member states of the commitment they made in 2005 to raise their official development assistance (oda) to 0.7% of gross national income (gni). this objective was to be achieved by 2015. at the end of 2014, the average commitment of the member states is only 0,47 per cent of gni. only five countries in the world have fulfilled this commitment, including four members of the european union: sweden, denmark, the netherlands and luxembourg. the report condemns tax havens and tax evasion and calls for investment in key areas such as education and health, including the importance of sexual and reproductive rights despite the efforts of the right wing in the house. these are good reminders, and i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution, although i have no illusions about its impact, particularly in france, a country which is continually reducing its development aid, including to the poorest countries. at a time when the eu is making this issue one of the pillars of its migration policy, it is important to recall the hypocrisy of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the proposed text was unanimously supported by the envi committee. it proposes, in particular, better training of hospital staff and improving patient safety by encouraging the fight against antimicrobial resistance through more responsible use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine. this proposal is generally in the right direction and although we regret that the amendments tabled by our delegation were not adopted, my colleagues and i supported it.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to improve care and, above all, to combat antibiotic resistance. the latter is mainly linked to the misuse of these drugs. antibiotic resistance is a major cause of mortality, with 37,000 deaths in the european union today. the aim of this text is to improve the training of hospital staff and to improve the use of antibiotics in the medical and veterinary world. these treatments are also used to increase livestock numbers, although they have been banned in europe since 2006. we would have liked more sovereignty, in particular through border control, which allows for better management of contagion and less austerity, including training of health personnel who are suffering from budget cuts. despite these differences, the text is generally in the right direction. for these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the various factors that compromise patient safety and that can contribute to the alarming spread of certain deadly diseases in some eu countries.
in writing. ‒ this report, 'safer healthcare in europe', aims to improve care and in particular antibiotic resistance. the phenomenon of antibiotic resistance is increasing because it is linked to misuse by self-medication, misprescription or non-therapeutic use. projections predict 10 million deaths a year by 2050 due to antibiotic resistance. to date, 37 000 people have died in the european union from antibiotic resistance. the text proposes, in particular, better training of hospital staff, measures to be adapted to the disparity observed in the member states and a more responsible use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine. several amendments were tabled by colleagues from my movement, but unfortunately they were not adopted, particularly on austerity, which led to budget cuts in hospitals and even more training and recognition for healthcare staff. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution is part of the joint work of the european commission and the member states to improve care and, more specifically, antibiotic resistance. patient resistance to antibiotics is declining, and this is a real public health problem. some projections predict up to 10 million deaths a year by 2050 due to antibiotic resistance. the proposed text provides for better training of hospital staff and a more responsible use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine. as this is only a motion for a resolution and not a regulation, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the quality of healthcare in the european union is of considerable importance. we have very advanced standards of health care in europe and this must continue. it is imperative that member states continue to implement reforms to improve the efficiency of their healthcare systems. patient safety must be a priority in this area. the report also calls on member states to put in place measures to combat antimicrobial resistance. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is part of a policy to improve care, particularly in the fight against antibiotic resistance. it is indeed a major public health problem since many deaths are caused by ineffective treatment of serious infections, ineffective treatment stemming from antibiotic resistance. at the current rate, projections are that by 2050 it will be killing 10 million people a year. i therefore believe that the proposals in the report are reasonable: better training for hospital staff, measures adapted to the member states according to the different standards and practices in each of them; finally, the promotion of a more responsible use of antibiotics in human and veterinary medicine. i regret, however, that the amendments tabled by the patriotic members in the envi committee were not adopted, since they would have been in favour of the measures needed to stem this phenomenon, such as reducing austerity, which leads to dramatic budget cuts in hospitals, better recognition of healthcare staff or a return to national control of borders to prevent contagion.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes to take stock of the policies in the member states on quality of care and health. the report is positive, as the current reforms undertaken by the member states to improve the quality of healthcare in europe are moving in the right direction and the rapporteur suggests ways of improving them. the report also addresses the crucial issue of the fight against antimicrobial resistance and calls in particular on the commission and the member states to step up research and development activities with a view to the emergence of new tools for the fight against antimicrobial resistance. finally, the report makes recommendations on the use of antibiotics in human and veterinary medicine in general and in livestock farming in particular. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. according to the european centre for disease prevention and control, one in 20 patients admitted to hospital in the european union is thought to have a care-associated infection. it is important that citizens have confidence in their health care system. of course, hygiene and the delivery of care in hospitals must be impeccable. as the report points out, patients too have a responsibility to follow the correct medical prescriptions. in this context, public health authorities must communicate to ensure adequate information, including to the most deprived. finally, member states should improve the collection and production of data on adverse events. this is a prerequisite for the establishment of effective alert systems to prevent the spread of antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. ‒ while public health policies are the competence and responsibility of states, the european union can complement national policies by helping member states to achieve their common objectives, tackle global challenges and generate economies of scale. today in europe, between 8 and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals suffer adverse reactions, of which almost half could be prevented, and 25 000 people die every year as a result of growing antibiotic resistance. in its report on health in europe, the european parliament therefore calls on pharmaceutical companies to invest in the development of new antimicrobial agents and asks the commission to consider the establishment of a legislative framework to encourage the development of new antibiotics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on safer healthcare in europe. the fight against antimicrobial resistance is a worrying phenomenon which must be one of our priorities. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i pay particular attention to the risks involved. to avoid them, we need to reduce the amount of antibiotics consumed by both humans and animals entering the food chain. this also requires better information for the patient, for whom antibiotics are not always the solution of choice, and for medical staff. the aim of these provisions is therefore to improve the use of antibiotics to improve their effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is part of a preventive approach to antibiotic resistance. despite its imperfections, it is a step forward because it tackles a vital public health problem.
in writing. ‒ i supported this project for safer care in europe. the fight against antimicrobial resistance is a major public health issue. two points in this report particularly struck me. the first point is the commission's responsibility for imposing austerity, even at the cost of the lack of staff and resources in hospitals. the second point is intensive livestock farming. this practice is the consequence of the globalist policies which the commission is pursuing and encouraging: to produce more and more under increasingly questionable conditions. the results are clear: intensive livestock farming is the number one source of antibiotic overuse and therefore antibiotic resistance. i am therefore anxious to see how the commission intends to resolve its schizophrenia between the need to improve care and its productivist drift. i am not going to support any binding measures for medical staff unless, at the same time, we do something to reduce the use of antibiotics on farms. i would add that country-specific assessments would be essential for a differentiated and more effective policy.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to improve care and, above all, to combat antibiotic resistance. the latter is mainly linked to the misuse of these drugs. this antibiotic resistance causes a high mortality rate, being responsible for 37,000 deaths in the european union. the text also calls for improved training of hospital staff in the use of antibiotics, both in the medical and veterinary fields. veterinary treatments based on antibiotics are still used to increase the profitability of livestock farms, although they have been banned in the union since the mid-2000s. however, simple measures that can be implemented and are particularly effective are not mentioned in the report. better border controls, which would have allowed better management of contagion, is a solution to be considered, as well as ending budget cuts in the field of public health to strengthen medical teams and thus to better monitor patients would reduce the use of antibiotics. however, this text is moving in the right direction, so i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague piernicola pedicini on the need for safer healthcare in europe. this report emphasises the need to improve patient safety and to combat antimicrobial resistance. it also highlights the need for further research into antimicrobials to combat human and animal bacteria as effectively as possible. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on safer healthcare in europe. the main objective of this is to improve patient safety and to combat antimicrobial resistance. in fact, nearly 10 million people die each year as a result of antimicrobial resistance. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on improving patient safety and tackling antimicrobial resistance in the european union. like the overwhelming majority of my colleagues, i voted in favour of this resolution which draws the conclusions of a worrying balance sheet, highlighted by the own-initiative report which was presented to the european parliament, which estimates that between 8 and 12% of patients admitted to hospitals in the eu suffer from adverse side effects such as nosocomial infections, involving almost 37 000 deaths per year, and placing a significant burden on the health budgets of the member states. in this context, we therefore wanted to stress the need to address the growing resistance to human and veterinary antibiotics, but also to promote pharmaceutical and medical innovation, in order to improve patient safety in the european union in a timely and sustainable manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report entitled 'safer healthcare in europe: improving patient safety and tackling antimicrobial resistance'. i believe that we must support a more reasonable use of antibiotics. the misuse of antibiotics (prescriptions for completely unnecessary viral diseases, prescriptions for broad-spectrum antibiotics, etc.) has led to the emergence and selection of resistant bacteria. the rapporteur, piernicola pedicini, is therefore right to advocate a more cautious use of antibiotics available in human and veterinary medicine, only when antibiotics are needed and according to appropriate prescriptions (dosage, dosage intervals and duration of treatment). the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it seeks to improve patients' health through realistic recommendations. for example, it recommends more reasonable use of antibiotics. it also has the merit of recalling that hospital directors should be "appointed on the basis of merit and not political affiliation".
in writing. - i voted yes. the resolution aims to improve care and, in particular, to combat antibiotic resistance. it is a serious public health problem that causes many deaths due to the lack of effective treatment for serious infections. to date, antimicrobial resistance has been responsible for 37,000 deaths in the european union. while the united states is the largest user of antibiotics, it has a number of deaths that is still high but lower than that of the european union with 23,000 deaths. this is due to unit selling and greater uniformity of practices. the text proposes better training of hospital staff and calls for the application of appropriate measures respecting the disparity between the member states, as well as a more responsible use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine. even if this text does not go far enough in defending sovereignty and border control to avoid contagion, it should be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. although the amendments tabled by our members have not been adopted, this resolution is rather well-targeted. it proposes, among other things, better training of hospital staff and more responsible use of antibiotics in human and veterinary medicine.
- "antibiotics are not automatic". despite the campaign by the french public authorities, the prescription of antibiotics is still too systematic, if not unnecessary, as in the case of viral infections, in france, in the eu and beyond. by 2050, ten million people could die each year worldwide from antimicrobial resistance developed by the ever-increasing use of stronger or broad-spectrum antibiotics. this report takes stock of this public health problem, which has been aggravated by austerity and budget cuts in health. it denounces the dangerous reduction in hygiene rules in hospitals and the decline in funding for research and development of new types of antibiotics or alternative care. it suggests possible ways for states to improve the responsible use of antibiotics for both humans and animals. it is thus in favour of small farms with extensive livestock farming, which alone can reduce the use of veterinary antibiotics. in order to combat the conflict of interest between doctors and large pharmaceutical companies, it proposes, in particular, to dissociate the volume of sales from the remuneration paid for a new antibiotic. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to improve care and, above all, to combat antibiotic resistance. the latter is mainly linked to the misuse of these drugs. antibiotic resistance is a major cause of mortality, with 37,000 deaths in the european union today. the aim of this text is to improve the training of hospital staff and the use of antibiotics in the medical and veterinary world. these treatments are also used to increase livestock numbers, although they have been banned in europe since 2006. however, we would have liked more sovereignty, in particular through border control, which allows for better management of contagion and less austerity, including training of healthcare staff who are suffering from budget cuts. despite these differences, the text is generally in the right direction. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. the report 'safer healthcare in europe' aims to tackle the threat of antibiotic resistance. this phenomenon is mainly linked to the excessive and/or improper use of antibiotics, which, as we will recall, fight against diseases of bacterial and not viral origin. self-medication and the wrong prescription are fueling this growing public health problem. according to some projections, by 2050 'antibiotic resistance' could be causing 10 million deaths a year, up from 37,000 today. the report is a step in the right direction, as it promotes better training and awareness of hospital practitioners, and rationalization and accountability in the use of antibiotics, including for veterinary use. although several of my colleagues' amendments were not accepted, particularly on austerity as the cause of the decline in public hospital services, i decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the security of healthcare in europe. in particular, measures should be taken to combat antimicrobial resistance, which has become a major concern for both human and animal health. in the european union, 25 000 people die each year from antibiotic-resistant bacteria. the text proposes to regulate and restrict the use of antibiotics at the end of the chain, but also to encourage the development of research into antibiotic therapy, which is made difficult by various economic, political or scientific barriers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on safer healthcare in europe. in the european union, hospital-acquired infections have become a major public health problem; one in 20 patients admitted to hospital suffer from a hospital-acquired infection, or 4.1 million patients each year, and 37,000 people die as a result of a care-related infection. in this report we propose measures to ensure safer use of existing treatments and to promote research and innovation.
in writing. the report aims to tackle the over-prescription of antibiotics, which is creating a problem of bacterial resistance, which could cause millions of deaths in the coming years. the report suggests possible ways of improving the responsible use of medicines, both for humans and animals. austerity is identified as a nuisance to patient health and staff efficiency, and vigilance is called for on the cap, particularly in the area of animal antibiotics, which are found in our diets and thereby affect humans. i share the findings and concerns expressed in this report and therefore support the recommendations contained therein.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is part of the work of the commission and the member states to improve care and, more specifically, to combat the development of antibiotic resistance. this is a massive, dangerous and irreversible phenomenon. the proposed text was unanimously supported by the envi committee. it also proposes improved training for hospital staff. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial'. the proposal is generally in the right direction, although i regret that the amendments proposed by my colleagues in the committee were not adopted. they proposed more sovereignty, less austerity (responsible for budget cuts in hospitals), control of borders to avoid contagion (especially tuberculosis), more training and recognition of healthcare staff, for example efforts by french veterinarians to reduce the consumption of antibiotics. i am voting for this text, which is still positive as a whole.
in writing. ‒ faced with the increase in the number of patients who have contracted diseases in hospitals, the eu has decided to take action and strengthen patient safety in europe. meps adopted a report on improving patient safety and tackling antimicrobial resistance on tuesday. i voted in favour of this text and i believe that it is now essential to strengthen cooperation between national systems and to encourage each member state to increase its efforts to protect patients better.
in writing. ‒ i supported this own-initiative report which makes recommendations to improve patient safety and to combat antimicrobial resistance. in fact, 25,000 people die each year from antibiotic-resistant bacteria. in this sense, we must continue to support and stimulate research in this area, particularly in the field of antibiotic therapy. despite the economic and financial crisis and the austerity measures that may be put in place, it is important that member states ensure a sufficient level of funding for health systems.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is part of the work of the commission and the member states to improve care and more specifically antibiotic resistance. the latter is massive, dangerous and irreversible. this resistance is due to the overuse of antibiotics that fight bacterial diseases. these misuses are done by self-medication, misprescription, or non-therapeutic use. in particular, antibiotics are used extensively worldwide as growth factors for livestock farming (a practice that has been banned in the eu since 2006 but is permitted in the us). by natural selection, only resistant bacteria survive the treatment, and are better able to escape it later. the death toll in the eu is now 37,000 and the projections are frightening. the text proposes, in particular, better training of hospital staff. it calls for more responsible use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine. this proposal is generally in the right direction. we proposed more sovereignty, less austerity, control of borders to prevent contagion, more training and recognition of healthcare staff, including efforts by french veterinarians to reduce the use of antibiotics, but our amendments were rejected. i am voting for it, however.
in writing. the systematic prescription of antibiotics is causing a growing public health problem and bacterial resistance is limiting the capabilities of remaining treatments. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's health and safety legislation is implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it also denounces the link between the use of antimicrobials in agriculture and human health. to improve the use of antibiotics, the report proposes strict regulation of their dosages and the dissociation of sales volume from the remuneration paid for a new antibiotic, as well as compensation for patients who have suffered therapeutic harm. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's report which reminds the member states of their obligations in the light of a recommendation which is aimed at improving public health. but i have no illusions because of the current budgetary constraints.
in writing. ‒ there are positive aspects to this project, such as the desire to lighten the burden and reduce the regulations on enterprises and to promote entrepreneurship in education curricula. these good ideas must not obscure the reality of the project. once again the european union is trying to interfere with the powers of the states by encouraging the commission to take action, through standards, against the states as regards school curricula, which are a national competence. the neo-liberal deregulation is emphasized in a recurring way. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the great potential of green growth, which can only be fully exploited if certain fundamental conditions are met. these include creating a more entrepreneurial mindset, setting transparent rules that are conducive to innovation, diversifying access to finance and increasing the possibilities for knowledge sharing.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to promote green investment for smes with several objectives: support for various financing solutions and development of smes in the green economy, improvement of information for smes on available financing, requests for tax policies favourable to venture capital in the states, fight against over-regulation and support for the promotion of entrepreneurship in educational programmes. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action. it does not mention funding methods and worse, it encroaches on state powers such as regulation or education. finally, the report contains a page devoted entirely to deregulation, which thus enshrines the ultra-liberal vision of the eu. i abstained on this report in view of the above.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on the european commission to support the various financing options for the launch and development of the green economy and insists that states have tax policies that are favourable to venture capital. this motion for a resolution expresses many good sentiments and urges the european commission to act against the will of the member states. in addition, it encroaches heavily on exclusive competences of the member states such as education or deregulation. the report also echoes the advocates of the adoption of tafta by using catch-all terms to better mask the scope of the text. i have abstained on this text pending clarification.
in writing. ‒ green growth, like blue growth, represents considerable economic opportunities. smes are the main actors in the european economy and must therefore be given a prominent place in growth plans to enable them to realise their full potential. this own-initiative report is parliament's response to the european commission's green action plan for smes. we must take account of the specificities of smes in european legislation. economic growth and respect for environmental standards are not inseparable. we will be able to find solutions which are both business-friendly and environmentally friendly. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which, while showing good intentions in developing the green economy, offers no concrete proposals for aid for project development in this area. i am also in favour of fighting over-regulation and relaxing the legislation on smes, but this cannot be achieved by the eu encroaching on the competences of the member states, particularly in the field of education, as is proposed in the report. the commission is thus called upon to take action against the member states, particularly with regard to their fiscal policy, which is an attack on the sovereignty of the european nations, which must be able to keep a hold on their public policies. finally, the text claims to be a neo-liberal philosophy in which the state is denied its role as strategist. for all these reasons, i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report builds on the european commission's green action plan for smes and aims to encourage european businesses to take greater advantage of opportunities arising from various sectors, such as renewable energy sources, and in particular the cost-effective exploitation of wind, solar, hydropower and geothermal energy, energy efficiency, resource efficiency, waste management, emission reduction, electrification and recycling. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the gradual shift towards a more resource-efficient and circular economy can create growth and jobs in europe.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises account for 98% of enterprises in europe. many of them wish to turn to eco-activities. but while the green economy could feed many initiatives, these sometimes struggle to scale up due to lack of funding. i voted in favour of this text to ensure that the european union supports green investment by smes, and this for two reasons. this is primarily due to a common political commitment embodied in the energy-climate package. secondly, it is an economic opportunity that should not be missed: eco-innovation is a lever for growth, competitiveness and job creation for the future. in addition to facilitating access to finance for smes, we need to raise awareness among young people about entrepreneurship. this is particularly important for the innovative projects of tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ green growth sectors have tremendous economic and environmental benefits for smes in the european union and are set to grow significantly in the coming years. parliament called on the commission and the eib to ensure that, during the implementation phase of the investment plan for europe, green and innovative smes were among the main beneficiaries of the aid.
in writing. ‒ resource efficiency and the circular economy bring many opportunities for european smes. the greens also want the european commission to put in place strong support measures to help these smes in this transition. the greens have succeeded in getting some concrete and positive proposals into this resolution, but the matter is not over. we therefore rejected this report, whose ideological approach is that legislation is the main obstacle to growth, and that deregulation - the dismantling of european social and environmental standards - can be beneficial to european citizens and smes. an adequate fiscal and regulatory framework is needed to support this transition to a circular economy and, to do so, legislation is a driver of change. the representatives of smes are calling for a reduction in administrative burdens and simplification of procedures, not for exemption from a legal framework. we agree that in order to achieve a union that offers good standards of social and environmental protection, if a legislative framework is needed in this area, it must apply to all. unfortunately, that is not what the majority of this house voted for today.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on green growth opportunities for smes. naturally, i am in favour of the development of smes, which requires favourable taxation. we must promote the qualities and know-how of french entrepreneurs, while encouraging them to produce in a way that is more environmentally friendly. however, these objectives cannot be achieved in this respect. it contains nothing new or sensible that would allow it. the basic ideas are hidden behind an ideology that seeks to encroach on national sovereignty. we cannot accept that. i therefore abstain as the most appropriate vote to express my wish to achieve the above objectives by taking a radically different path.
in writing. ‒ resource efficiency and the circular economy offer many opportunities for european smes. the greens also want the european commission to put in place support measures to help these smes in this transition. the greens have succeeded in getting some concrete and positive proposals into this resolution, but the count is not over. we therefore rejected this report, whose ideological approach is that legislation is the main obstacle to growth, or that deregulation - the dismantling of european social and environmental standards - can be beneficial to european citizens and smes. an adequate fiscal and regulatory framework is needed to support this transition to a circular economy and, to do so, legislation is a driver of change. the representatives of smes are asking for a reduction in administrative burdens and simplification of procedures, not an exemption from a legal framework. we must achieve high standards of social and environmental protection. and if a legislative framework is needed in this area, it must be applied to all. unfortunately, that is not what the majority of this house voted for today.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on green growth slots for smes. the proposal calls on the commission and the member states to facilitate the development of smes in the green economy financially, including through the juncker plan. but if the intention is good, the means are paltry. no financing solution is actually proposed. encouraging member states to implement favourable tax provisions for these smes is difficult in the current budgetary context, and is also contrary to the objectives of public-accounting consolidation imposed by europe. the reference to the junker plan is also ineffective, since the plan itself is not provisioned. as for encouraging member states to attract foreign investors, this is advice that applies to the whole economy and not just the green economy. the resolution calls on the member states to deregulate in order to remove obstacles to the internal market. the european union's deregulation is too seldom concerned with administrative hassles. they are usually aimed at weakening social and even environmental standards, which would be particularly inappropriate in a so-called green economy.
in writing. ‒ this green growth project for small and medium-sized enterprises has many positive aspects, since it advocates a reduction in burdens and regulations, or the promotion of entrepreneurship in secondary education. but other aspects are much less defensible. the union is, in fact, still interfering with the member states' competence: the aspect concerning school curricula, although praiseworthy in substance, is an intrusion into the member states' competence. it is also a text which will weaken the states in the face of unregulated globalisation, in a context of crisis where only protectionism will be able to defend their interests. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague philippe de backer on the green growth opportunities for smes. the report calls on the commission to support as much as possible, through the budget of the horizon 2020 programme, european smes that are involved in environmental sustainability, which is a real driver of growth. smes are the backbone of the european economy and an important engine of growth and job creation. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on promoting the green economy for smes. in order to make the green economy a real driver of job creation and growth, it is necessary to define clear and transparent rules, allowing smes to easily access funding opportunities, and to establish an appropriate european framework for research, development and innovation.
in writing. ‒ this backer report, 'green growth hubs for smes', calls for encouraging green investment in smes by means such as supporting the financing and development of smes in the green economy, better information on available financing options, simplification of regulations, a tax policy that encourages venture capital, or a stimulus to entrepreneurship in secondary education. this report is an alignment of vague intentions and proposals, some of which are already being applied in the member states. while some of them can be supported, others are more in line with the competence of the member states, such as the proposals on education or environmental regulations. the report also contains a neo-liberal patina and calls for ever more deregulation. i therefore decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. - i abstained. the proposal calls on the commission to support financing policies for the development of smes in the green economy, using a variety of means. the commission is therefore requested to ensure that member states have tax policies that are favourable to smes, that they improve their information on available funding in relation to the green economy, that they favour smes in the juncker plan, that they act to limit regulation at national level and that they promote entrepreneurship in education programmes. the resolution does not, however, offer much concrete information, particularly on the development of instruments to support the development of projects in this field. moreover, as is often the case, it tends, in spirit, to want to limit the competences of the states that we consider exclusive, as is the case with education. it even encourages the commission to act against the member states, particularly in the area of regulation, which is of course unacceptable. this is because this proposal is in keeping with the neoliberal logic which is the dogma of the european union.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. there are certainly some good ideas in this report, but the result is wrong and does not bring any concrete proposals or new ideas. so it is wiser to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report clearly identifies the problems facing smes, including difficulty in accessing finance, access to research and development expenditure, international pressure and competition. it shows the potential of the environmental sector and also supports the circular economy. the answers given, however, are the usual neoliberal recipes. the report 'calls on the commission to step up its efforts to tackle overregulation with the individual member states'. the report even proposes to include 'green services' in the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment pact (ttip). it's just a bunch of lame propaganda for a system that doesn't work. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ there are positive aspects to this project, such as the desire to reduce the burden and regulations on enterprises and to promote entrepreneurship in education programmes. these good ideas must not obscure the reality of the project. once again, the european union is trying to interfere with the powers of the states by encouraging the commission to act, through standards, against the states (paragraph 17) as for school curricula which are a national competence (paragraph 22). moreover, neo-liberal deregulation is frequently highlighted. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. this backer report, 'green growth hubs for smes', calls for encouraging green investment in smes by means such as supporting the financing and development of smes in the green economy, better information on available financing options, simplification of regulations, a tax policy that encourages venture capital, or a stimulus to entrepreneurship in secondary education. this report is an alignment of vague intentions and proposals, some of which are already being applied in the member states. while some of them can be supported, others are more in line with the competence of the member states, such as the proposals on education or environmental regulations. the report also contains a neo-liberal patina and calls for ever more deregulation. i therefore decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which encourages smes to take advantage of green growth. this includes making more efficient use of available resources, promoting simple and accessible sources of information and facilitating the start-up of young businesses by encouraging them to collaborate with research institutes, universities and vocational training centres. it also stresses the importance of women entrepreneurs, which i support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on green growth opportunities for smes, which is based on an action plan proposed by the commission to encourage smes to take better advantage of green growth. many questions raised by stakeholders during the consultations have been incorporated into this report of great importance for the future of europe. the sustainable growth model of green growth has enormous potential for international markets, and european smes must be given access to them. it is also by facilitating the launch of young start-ups and small businesses that we can combat unemployment, especially among young people. at european level, resources exist, and they must now be used more efficiently.
in writing. the green growth initiative report for smes clearly identifies the problems facing smes, including difficult access to finance, access to research and development funds, competitive pressure and environmental sector challenges. however, despite support for the cosme programme, no response has been really satisfactory, making competitiveness and the removal of regulatory obstacles the priority of union action, without any other concrete support being proposed. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, like many others in this house, aligns good feelings without any concrete proposals, no new ideas for funding programmes or instruments for aid to project development. in addition, it largely encroaches on exclusive state competences such as education (paragraph 22) or regulation. in the latter area, it encourages the commission to take action against the states (paragraph 17). finally, the text is a neoliberal profession of faith in its wording (a whole page is devoted to the promotion of deregulation). nevertheless, some of the measures proposed are rather good, such as those aimed at improving smes' information on available financing in connection with the green economy or asking the commission to support the various financing solutions for the launch and development of smes in the green economy. that's why i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ today, economic activities are increasingly affected by new environmental concerns. the european union is thus encouraging businesses and economic operators to develop more environmentally friendly production methods while remaining competitive. in this context, the european parliament adopted a report on green growth and business opportunities for smes. i am glad that i voted in favour of this text. it is important to support the green growth of smes and to identify opportunities to combine competitiveness of smes with environmental protection. the text stresses the importance of giving priority to energy efficiency and of informing companies more about the various european projects and financing. but i say that we must avoid at all costs adding to the burden on our companies when our competitors do not. it would be catastrophic for our competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ representing 98% of enterprises, smes play a vital role in the european economy. i voted in favour of this report on green growth and the circular economy. it should be remembered that the eu is the world leader in the import and export of environmental products. we must encourage smes in this sector. european programmes and funds must be in line with the eu's climate strategies and, more generally, with its environmental policies, without creating additional administrative burdens. the eu needs to review its entrepreneurial culture in order to encourage business creation, particularly in the field of sustainable development. finally, i welcome the creation of a european centre of excellence for the efficient use of resources: innovation is one of the essential components of green growth and european competitiveness on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aligns good feelings and abstract proposals without new funding or programme ideas, or even the development of instruments to help develop projects in this area. it also largely encroaches on exclusive state competences such as education. i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report recognises the difficulties faced by small and medium-sized enterprises in the face of international competition and the lack of funding they suffer from. this applies to access to research and development. but in response to this observation, the report merely reiterates the same old neoliberal recipes without calling into question the policies of the european union and the famous '2020 strategy'. so yes, it is more necessary than ever to support smes, but no, we will not solve their problems with "flexisicurity". it is time to finally draw the consequences of the crisis. we must provide sustainable financing and support solutions for the socially and ecologically responsible development of smes. green growth is an ideological garment that fails to respond to the social and environmental challenges of today. i have nevertheless chosen to abstain on this text, considering that the observation of the difficulties of smes was unfortunately a reality but that the proposed solutions could not constitute adequate responses.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on csdp (article 36 teu) on:- report by arnaud danjean, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy) (2014/2220(ini) (a8-0054/2015),- report by eduard kukan and ind tarrekand, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets, on the financing of the common security and defence policy (2014/2258(ini) (a8-0136/2015), and- report by ana gomes, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the impact of developments in european defence markets on defence and security capabilities in europe (2015/2037(ini) (a8-0159/2015).
the rapporteur. madam president, madam high representative, never since the launch of the common european security and defence policy, 16 years ago now, has europe faced so many simultaneous crises at its borders and on its soil, as well as multifaceted threats to its external and internal security: regional conflicts, civil wars, terrorism, migration tragedies, nuclear and conventional proliferation. the enormous geopolitical transformation under way is posing unprecedented challenges to our continent, particularly in its eastern neighbourhood and on its southern flank, if not in their nature - wars and terrorism, we have known them for a long time - but in any case in their scale. in the face of these dramatic developments, the european union and its member states have a dual duty to act: to protect themselves and to act in our environment to reduce instability. unfortunately, we must admit that the impression that prevails among our fellow citizens, but also outside our borders, is that of european impotence: in ukraine, syria, iraq, the middle east, libya, the horn of africa, the sahel. there are very few crises and conflicts today in which europe, either collectively or through its member states, plays a truly decisive role in terms of its interests, its values and its diplomatic, economic and military weight. even where the action of some europeans seems the most assertive and robust, such as that of france in the sahel, the scale of the diplomatic, military and economic task, our budgetary constraints and our capacity limits leave no illusions about the very relative impact of what is undertaken by a few. in this context, the common security and defence policy could and should be a major instrument for europe to finally assume its responsibilities for its own security and that of its environment. i am a realist, so i am not saying that this common policy is the only one possible, because national policies and multilateral partnerships such as the atlantic alliance are essential structures for the defence of the continent and our nations. this is recognized in the treaties. the common security and defence policy is not, and will not be in the near future, a genuine defence policy. it is an instrument, a policy for crisis management, and we must consider it as such first. the problem is, the seizures are here. they are becoming more intense, more and more close, and our management is becoming less and less able to meet these challenges. the guidelines you have proposed, madam high representative, with the defence ministers you met yesterday in brussels for the european council in june, are in the right direction, and i commend you for the determined action you have taken since you took office. these guidelines are based on the same observation as the one i have just made, namely dissatisfaction, insufficiency and urgency. you have stressed that the european union is currently deploying 11 civilian missions and five military operations. the professionalism and dedication of our civilian and military personnel is remarkable and we must commend them. but the respect we owe to these personnel, who are deployed in difficult theatres on behalf of the european union, also obliges us to recognise that these missions and operations become, far too often, forms of alibi for our presence. i would say that our visibility sometimes overrides our effectiveness in the judgment we make on these missions. i therefore hope that you will carry out this evaluation work successfully. in conclusion, because time is running out and there is a lot to be said also on the industrial and capacity level, naturally i would simply like to point out to you that today we do not need creativity, inventiveness or imagination. we need to be able to read. everything we need in terms of security and defence is in the treaty: enhanced cooperation, permanent structured cooperation, flexibility with article 44, financing and solidarity mechanisms, all of this is in the treaty. we are counting on you, madam high representative, to remind the member states of this.
madam president, we are talking about a common european security and defence policy. the terms are already distorted. it is, in fact, a shared defence and security policy - the report implies this - with nato and america. the report calls for the european authorities to take defence matters seriously in the run-up to the june summit. but what is the point of wanting a common defence policy when our geopolitical options are decided elsewhere? european defence policy has become that of the united states, it is no longer that of the european citizens in its common dimension. the real french patriots are currently rejecting this european security policy, which is a policy of european insecurity and chaos.
madam president, the report on the european security and defence policy calls for the uniformity of the foreign policy positions of the european countries. no effective common foreign policy has been established. the european countries each have their own history with a capital h, their own geography, and therefore a different perception of interests and a different understanding of the world. therefore, such a foreign policy needs an external federator, as general de gaulle prophesied, which explains the mention of nato in this report. the irresponsible and belligerent positions of this parliament show us how disastrous a european army would be. who would control such an army and for what interests? can we reasonably think of sending our french soldiers to be killed in a war if my people are against it? we can die for our country, but we cannot die for the brussels commission. can we reasonably imagine that a nuclear power such as my country, france, would delegate this responsibility to irresponsible technocrats? delegating the spirit of defence is to kill the reason for the existence of nations and france will never accept this. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the rapporteur, mr president, has asked for a blue card. madam president, mr philippot, grandiloquence is one thing, precision is another. i would simply ask you, since we are discussing a specific report today, to which chapter of that report do you refer when you speak of a 'european army', since, of the 56 articles in that report, that term is not mentioned anywhere?
answer is "blue cardboard". when we talk about common defence and if we listen carefully to each other's speeches, to the very concrete and precise proposals for a european army that have recently come from the european institutions, you know very well that this project is in the pipeline. it was fortunately rejected at the beginning of european construction, with the european development fund in 1954, and i fear that it will return today, to the great misfortune of the peoples of europe.
madam president, this report is concerned with the lack of mutual understanding and solidarity among the countries of the european union in the field of defence. but the modest nature of military operations under the common security and defence policy is only a reflection of the profound divergences of interests between the various member states. the idea of a federated european army is therefore a dream that only the pro-european minds can believe to be a foreboding one. the divisions over the war in iraq or even the intervention in libya are evidence of this. in addition, this sharing is driven by cuts in national defense budgets. it is questionable whether brussels is not imposing austerity to promote the european army and thus satisfy the bellicose attitude of mr juncker, whose ideas have not thawed since the end of the cold war. the only interests which a european army would serve are those of external federalism, denounced in his time by general de gaulle, i mean the united states and its armed wing, nato. it is also scandalous that this report proposes to finance military interventions from the budget of the european union, whereas this is clearly prohibited by article 41 (2) of the treaty on european union. this report is therefore the work of europeans who believe that there can be no salvation outside the union. in the face of these desires, it is urgently necessary to reduce the share of france's defence budget to 2% of gdp and to promote bilateral, targeted and temporary cooperation as it should.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, this report by arnaud danjean is in fact encouraging the dispossession of our sovereignty in favour of a european army. whether or not the term is used, that is the objective. european security must, on the contrary, be based on the willingness of states to develop their own armed forces. france, the united kingdom and italy are still making a special effort. they must maintain this effort, even increase it, especially in the case of france, whose army is being destabilized year after year. when germany announces that it is going to make a special effort to defend itself, i can only welcome it, because it is unacceptable that europeans should let down their guard in the face of asia and the islamic world, which are becoming increasingly militarized in both quantity and quality. but european defence must not consist in erecting a new wall to the east of the union against russia, nor must it aim at the creation of a transatlantic army to replace the european armies. any other logic will make the european union not a promise of peace but a promise of war. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the madam president, at present there are 500 million europeans whose overall defence budget represents only one third of the defence effort, while the united states, a sovereign nation, contributes 50% of it. what i am simply saying is that it is the nations that can effectively organise the overall defence of europe through enhanced cooperation and cooperation of variable geometry. today, in any case, the logic of european defence has failed and mr arnaud danjean's report, despite his good will and strategic knowledge, will only amplify this defeat.
madam president, madam high representative, i would first like to welcome the work of our rapporteur, arnaud danjean. the report goes in the right direction: we must develop a common security and defence policy in the light of the present situation. yes, we need a clear line, a clear strategy, as the report says, to strengthen the europe of defence. two out of three europeans are in favour of the development of a genuine common security and defence policy. unfortunately, we find that the csdp's tasks are today tragically weak. the new eumam rca mission, for example, is too small: only 60 people, 20 of whom were proposed by france. this mission is not about training but only about counselling. madam high representative, we are counting on you. you've created a movement that we've all been applauding for the last few months. the european summit in june is important and we are counting on your tenacity to enable the heads of state to go along with the proposal that you are making and that we are making in this parliament with the report by arnaud danjean.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam high representative, i would like to say that the words you have just spoken on the practical aspect of what should inspire us are perfectly in line with the philosophy of the report i have presented and that my colleagues - i thank them - have been pleased to add to their contributions. i think that the debate today has shown this quite clearly, in the positive reception it has received. the question we have to answer today is how do we do better together in the face of security challenges that are of unprecedented scale and complexity? let me say that those of us who have been very ideological in our approach, with attitudes which are sometimes totally unrealistic in relation to what is in this text, are wrong. to those who fear or hope for a european army, for example - we have heard about it today - i say that they are misguided in their debate. that is not the purpose of this report and this discussion, nor even of the council meeting in june. the point is how we as a group of 28 can face challenges. because these are challenges that no member state can meet alone. it's as simple as that. the answers are, indeed, first in the treaty. i appreciate the fact that you're using your institutional and political influence to push this philosophy, which is a pragmatic philosophy, of flexibility. that's what we need today. we can't do everything with 28. we may not have to do everything together in terms of security and defence because the reality in europe is heterogeneous. but we must, as a political body, make sure that those who want to do more and go further in terms of the integration of defence policy can do so. i think that the paths you propose and those we propose are perfectly compatible, complementary, and go in the same direction. i hope that they will be heard by the member states.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, once again we are discussing the situation in hungary. we hear the same cries of outrage on the right of the house. no doubt mr orbán will tell us that others in the european union are violating human rights, regardless of the political colour of their government. he'll be right about that. governments throughout the european union are playing with populism. it's not a right-left debate but hungary is a kind of condensed, bad collection of what not to do. since our last debate last october, amnesty international has pointed out that ngos are facing unprecedented repression; the commissioner for human rights reported that hate speech and acts against roma, jews, lgbt, asylum seekers, sdfs were getting worse and that media freedom should be strengthened. there's the famous questionnaire, which links migration to terrorism, and there's the statements on the death penalty. these are not just proposals for debate, as we were told in the libe committee. on 8 may, mr orbán said that the reintroduction of the death penalty should be a national competence and that if the protection of citizens does not work without the death penalty, it should be reintroduced. how far will we go without responding with anything but words? article 7 is a decoy, it is inapplicable, it is not even a deterrent. when will infringement procedures in this area be as effective as in economic matters? we must act, and not just in hungary. if not, what is the meaning of article 2 of our treaties?
in writing. what right does the european parliament have to question the decisions of a democratically elected government of a sovereign country, in this case hungary? was mr orban not democratically elected by his people? are the elections in hungary not in accordance with the basic principles of democracy which the european union claims to defend? the european union was much less demanding in the days of the so-called popular democracies! ... we want the european union to respect a fundamental principle of democracy: the sovereignty of the peoples, which is its fundamental framework.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i would like to commend the decisive work of the rapporteurs, and i am thinking in particular of judith sargentini. despite the many pressures, we will vote tomorrow to create registers of beneficial ownership of offshore companies. it's a victory won at great cost. some member states have done everything possible to limit this progress as much as possible. the united kingdom has thus obtained the non-disclosure of trust registers. we will also have to be vigilant about how some member states will define, at home, access for ngos and journalists to other registers. that is why tomorrow's vote is only the first step in our march against opaque and illicit financial flows, which serve the interests of rich individuals, multinational companies or criminal or terrorist networks. tomorrow we will show that the status quo is not a fatality and i hope... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, any strengthening of legislation against money laundering and the financing of terrorism is, a priori, in the right direction. however, such strengthening must not entail sacrificing the sovereignty of the member states, since it is the member states that are best placed to combat these mafia networks effectively. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. we must not be naive, money laundering and terrorist financing networks take advantage of the absence of borders between member states. the free movement of capital and persons and the freedom of establishment in the 27 countries have created a legal environment favourable to the development of these criminal activities. in the absence of increased police and judicial cooperation between the member states, the application of the schengen agreement and the principles of free movement should therefore be suspended.
mr president, this text amends the community regulation of 29 may 2000 on insolvency proceedings. it is designed to protect creditors in cases where the insolvency of a company is of a cross-border nature. it has the merit of conferring jurisdiction on the courts of the member state in which the debtor undertaking has its principal centre of interests. the reality of the place of business of the company is thus used as a criterion for the attribution of jurisdiction, which makes it possible to exclude forum shopping, that is to say the abusive search by cross-border debtors for the most favourable national jurisdiction. however, this provision has the disadvantage of overly restricting the possibility for the creditor to bring secondary proceedings before the courts of his own state where the debtor has assets in that state. that's why i'm hostile to it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, maria arena, for her tenacity in tackling a subject which - regrettably - is not sufficiently taken into account today in its concern for the rights of all women in europe. many have stressed the urgency of establishing a european framework for maternity leave to put an end to the blatant discrimination in this area. why does the council pay so little attention to our repeated calls for constructive dialogue? why has the latvian presidency remained deaf to our rapporteur's repeated requests to discuss this issue? i think the council has completely failed in its duty as a co-legislator. i would like to ask the commissioner to take his position fully rather than wait for the commission to throw this text out of the window and to show that he is responsible to the european citizens. on another note, to those who oppose us on this matter, as well as many others, the question of the costs of this measure, i want to say that the costs of non-measures must never be underestimated. how much does the burden of sick leave on women, who see this as the only way to extend maternity leave which is too short, weigh on social budgets? i'd like to know your answers.
mr president, i think it is absolutely essential to have a european text which protects women at work, including in the maternity dimension. it is our logic of worker mobility, social protection and equality of citizens. i'm sorry, but in 2008, we knew we were falling into a rut when the vote took place in parliament. i therefore believe that we all have a responsibility: parliament, the council and the commission. what do we want at the bottom? i have not heard a unanimous and convergent view of our will tonight. today, in my view, we must turn the page and start again on the right footing, because it is not with a discussion like that of this evening that we are able to build a real european legislation that finally protects women at work. yes, the women have excellent training. yes, they have the right to work. yes, they were victims of the crisis. we must therefore, by means of a new text, get them out of this rut completely. it's our responsibility. we must not hide behind our petty little finger and shift the blame onto others.
mr president, the european programme on migration is not up to the task of preventing deaths in the mediterranean and of dealing with the humanitarian crisis that is actually taking place at our borders. we're still in the same logical frame of reference with the four pillars. but when we hear the reaction of the member states, we are dismayed: not a shadow of a hesitation to embark on a military operation with high risks, including for migrants. we have the financial and human resources. but to save human lives, it's ridiculous. just compare the numbers. governments respond by amalgamating migrants, asylum seekers and refugees. as regards resettlement, the spanish government tells us that the unemployment rate and the effort made should be taken into account. commissioner, i wonder if they have read your proposals. france argues that this calls into question the principle of subsidiarity in the field of asylum. i shall now turn to the reactions of the united kingdom, poland, hungary, the czech republic and the baltic states, which are not making much of an effort in this area. we're in the middle of a delusion. the member states are playing with fears. they're running after the far right. when will they finally realise the demographic and economic challenges facing the european union in the years ahead? all human lives are of equal value. where is the solidarity of the member states? yes, the union must act, and the member states must respect the law, international law, starting with the right of asylum.
mr president, allow me to congratulate you for a minute and to cry out in anger. i congratulate you because i too want to welcome the european commission's proposal for a programme. finally, it is a recognition of the scale of the migration phenomenon in europe. it's about time! for the past five years, there have been a series of terrible shipwrecks in the mediterranean. it's about time! we have long been vigorously denouncing the failure of the dublin system. it's about time! because we have been advocating for years for a revision of the blue card directive. this awareness, which comes late, is a awareness which has the merit of existing and, above all, of proposing actions, of formulating innovative and - i want to emphasize this here - courageous pragmatic proposals. i am also angry because i too want to denounce the scandalous reactions of certain member states, which are a bit like the two-faced janus, the roman god with two faces, who on the one hand recognize in their states, through sympathetic speeches, the need for solidarity and who on the other hand, with the other face, as soon as a courageous solution such as that proposed in this programme is put on the table, directly oppose it, like certain heads of government whom i will not name. this strategy paper is a real breakthrough. i ask the council to encourage the member states to turn words into action, to act and to translate these proposals into action. at the same time, we should all express european solidarity, with long-term measures to address the causes, as was very appropriately mentioned this morning.
commissioner, you have presented a european programme on migration and this proposal has at least one merit, namely that it exists. the programme contains some good proposals - it has been said - namely the tripling of the financial resources for triton and poseidon, the financing of the eu navfor med operation, the strengthening of partnerships, a more robust return policy. all this is in the right direction, but i am very sceptical about your proposal to relocate asylum seekers. my country, france, is one of the five countries which already receive 75% of asylum seekers. in fact, we welcome almost 300,000 additional migrants every year. we are also providing important resources within the framework of the frontex agency. so can we really decide on a distribution mechanism based on accounting terms without taking into account our traditions? i would like to ask for clarification, commissioner. when do you plan to start this mechanism? under what conditions will the allocation be decided, for example, when fingerprints are taken on board vessels? and by whom? under what authority? i agree with you, commissioner, that solidarity should not be just a word but should be translated into action. but the solution is not to be found in a system of distribution which is, by definition, rigid and which, on the contrary, risks favouring or encouraging migratory pressure and depriving the states of a vital part of their sovereignty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, faced with the disaster of its immigration policy and its inability to prevent the flood of migrants, the european union is proposing a plan that only it could have devised: to distribute illegal immigrants among the various european countries and to call for a common asylum system. it is out of the question for the commissioners to decide for the french how many illegal immigrants they must accept on their soil. it is also clear that this organized management of illegal immigration will have a normalising effect and create an additional air demand. as a result, there will unfortunately be more illegal immigrants, more shipwrecks and more deaths at sea. the european union has also invented a justification for its favourable position on more immigration: immigration would be good for growth! it's amazing you admit, with all your shame, that your aim is to provide cheap labour in order to weigh down the wages of all workers in europe, and this against the will of the people. it is therefore a further attack on the sovereignty of our country, an affront to the french people, the majority of whom are opposed to immigration, and a way of increasing the problem rather than solving it. as usual, the european union's desire to expand its powers will lead to disastrous results.
mr president, when the commission proposes refugee quotas, providing the crisis with a european response, it is the member states who, motivated by their selfishness, torpedo this solution. so is there any point in discussing this european programme on migration, when the member states have already agreed on a military operation? will targeting the ships stop the flow of migrants fleeing war and poverty? no, you can't! is this the way to deal with the traffickers? no, you can't! will we have settled the matter, even provisionally? no, you can't! we will add chaos to chaos and suffering to suffering. have we lost both our heads and our hearts? by refusing even the minimum of european solidarity, the member states are betraying europe. when françois hollande and manuel valls oppose solidarity in europe, i feel an irrepressible sense of shame and anger at seeing europe and its values trampled underfoot.
mr president, i would like to focus my speech on the most immediate and spectacular response to this difficult issue of migration, namely the naval military operation in the mediterranean which has just been launched. this is very unusual of me, but i will express the deepest reservations and the deepest doubts about this operation. i fear that the stated ambitions are excessively difficult to achieve. at best, it seems to me, this device will have perhaps - perhaps - a deterrent effect. and yet... it will be extremely difficult, legally and operationally, to really tackle the smuggling and trafficking networks. the martial language we have been fed for weeks is quite understandable in this difficult situation, but i think it is hard to really cover the reality of the operational and legal constraints we are going to face. beyond the grand declarations of martial law, much more thorough work must be undertaken with and towards the african countries from which and through which the majority of these waves of migration come. we have interlocutors in those countries, we have points of reference, including in the field of security, and i think that is where we must work first, because when we tackle the problem on the shores of the mediterranean, it is already too late.
mr president, the least we can say is that the european commission has not left anyone indifferent to its programme on migration: some lament its lack of ambition, others cry out the opposite. but all agree that the task was not easy. how can we propose an ambitious and innovative programme when the current context seems to call more for minimalist recipes and calculations through the narrow end of the electoral lens? the european council gave us a sad example of this last april. i therefore welcome the commission's position, which has been translated into action. there is no discourse on migration without the term "solidarity", but its application remained in the virtual field. the emergency distribution mechanisms proposed by the commission aim to break this taboo by giving substance to solidarity both between member states and with third countries. of course, the operational details are still to be defined, but this is a step in the right direction, which parliament has been calling for for many years. parliament also called for a comprehensive approach to migration, and that is what we are being asked to do: to define the entire migration path from the country of origin to the country of destination and then on to the country of transit. this is consistent with our analysis, which wants to look at migration in the short, medium and long term. finally, i would like to make two suggestions to the commission: first, continue your work of teaching and explaining the proposals, to avoid fruitless confusion which is more to do with sensational speeches of fear than with reason, and secondly, hold on!
mr president, i would like to welcome the commission and congratulate it on its commitment. this is a genuinely european action, which commits our governments to working together. that said, frontex will play a very important role, and i would like to ask you, commissioner, and also you, madam president, why poland has still not signed the headquarters agreement, when frontex has been based in warsaw since 2004. if we want to be fully operational and welcome staff who are not necessarily polish at frontex, it seems to me that we need to get this headquarters agreement signed. i thank you for your replies and for the diligence you will show in this matter.
in writing. the masters of the european union have taken off their masks in the face of the terrifying mediterranean graveyard. we knew the incompetence of these institutions in the matter of immigration because they were unable to control and contain the ever-growing flows. the perfidy of the commission and the council is now becoming apparent, which want to accelerate the flood of migration at the expense of the lives of millions of men, women and children whom you are trying to make believe that europe is an eldorado open to all. instead of adopting the australian method of returning migrants, which has proved to be effective and humane, you are misguided into a quota policy which will only cover a tiny fraction of the migration flows and will fill the pockets of smugglers and mafias thriving on this new system of human trafficking. what a paradox that the european union, which boasts of being at the forefront of risk assessment, fails to take account of the dramatic and irreversible consequences of a blatant call for mass immigration into europe: insecurity, poverty, overpopulation, uncontrolled social spending and the destruction of the national cohesion and cultural unity of the european nations. your irresponsibility is a violation of the people.
in writing. the european agenda on migration is an undeniable first step towards the establishment of a comprehensive european union migration policy. this strategy emphasises cooperation with countries of origin and transit as well as the strengthening of the common european asylum system. the union and its member states can no longer allow people to risk their lives to seek asylum. in order to avoid shipwrecks, it was necessary to propose a military naval operation under the auspices of the un in the mediterranean to dismantle smuggling networks and combat the smuggling of migrants. in parallel, legal and safe pathways for applicants to the union must also be developed. embassies, consulates, the establishment of a european humanitarian visa system, the processing of asylum applications directly in third countries are all possible solutions. the union could also charter its own boats to bring refugees and asylum seekers safely to our continent. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to achieve a fairer distribution of refugees and asylum seekers among the member states, although the proposals on legal migration are lacking in ambition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this new european parliament work schedule.
in writing. 2016 will include 58 days of plenary sessions, including 12 sessions in strasbourg and 5 mini-sessions in brussels. this calendar does not call for comments since it is the same as in 2015 and does not tend to call into question the strasbourg seat. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the next calendar will include changes to the mini-plenary sessions. the council will be holding two plenary sessions instead of one, with debates on wednesday afternoon and votes on thursday morning. i abstained on the vote on the calendar.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the calendar of the european parliament's sessions for 2016. i would remind you, however, that according to the treaties, the european parliament meets in plenary session in strasbourg. the number of mini-plenary sessions in brussels should therefore be reduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this change of timetable which will allow a return to normal, i.e. a pace which allows for optimal and more efficient work by parliamentarians during plenary sessions in brussels; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this decision is to adopt the calendar of the european parliament's work and of its plenary sessions for the year 2016. i note that 12 plenary sessions are scheduled to take place in strasbourg, as well as five 'mini-sessions' in brussels. in a context of reduced european legislative activity, in accordance with the pledges of the epp and jean-claude juncker's campaign for better legislation, the merits of these mini-sessions should be questioned and such a practice should not end up calling into question the strasbourg plenary sessions, provided for in the treaties. nevertheless, considering that this proposed timetable is in line with the letter of the treaties in this respect, i voted in favour of this timetable but i will remain attentive and vigilant on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conference of presidents' proposal on the calendar of plenary sessions for 2016. this calendar respects the european treaties and the 12 plenary sessions scheduled each year in strasbourg. this calendar of sessions was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal of the conference of presidents establishing the calendar of plenary sessions for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the 2016 calendar of the european parliament, and i am glad that this year we were spared the manoeuvres that have become traditional to challenge the position of strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ one of the tasks of parliament is to determine the timetable for its sessions. exceptionally, the proposed calendar for 2016 respects important national commemorations. it does not propose sessions on 8 may, 14 july or 11 november. i am voting for and strongly encourage this new attitude of respect for history.
in writing. this calendar of plenary sessions of the parliament in 2016 does not call for any particular remarks since it includes the same number of plenary sessions as in 2015, whereas one could fear a decrease in these given the desire shown by the european parliament to increase the time spent by the meps in the constituency to preach the good word of europe. the year 2016 will therefore include 58 days of plenary sessions, including 12 sessions in strasbourg and 5 mini-sessions in brussels. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a council decision concerns the approval of the additional protocol to the cde agreement between the union and south africa to take account of the accession of croatia to the union. the aim of this proposal is therefore exclusively to make the few technical and linguistic amendments to the cdc agreement which have become necessary as a result of croatia's accession to the union. i am opposed in principle to further enlargement of the eu and all that follows from it. however, i abstained on this text because the initial agreement signed in pretoria in 1999 aims to strengthen cooperation. i cannot therefore oppose the development of eu-south africa ties at a time when the new icd has been cut in three and reduced to eur 241 million for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ this additional protocol was made necessary by the accession of croatia to the union. the agreement contains technical and linguistic amendments. the aid package for south africa will help the poorest, who have suffered the most from the deterioration of the economic and political situation in that country over the last 20 years. this aid amounts to eur 241 million over the period 2014-2020. regular political dialogue is being established to make the financial allocation more effective and efficient. the aim of this agreement, signed in 1999, was to strengthen cooperation and support the process of economic and social transition. however, i do not support the policy of enlargement of the union, and therefore, for reasons of political consistency, i preferred not to vote for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is aimed solely at making the few technical and linguistic changes to the cde agreement that are necessary as a result of croatia's accession to the union. its signature is required for the republic of croatia to become a party to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to approve the conclusion of the additional protocol which aims to make technical and linguistic changes to the cdc agreement. these amendments follow the accession of croatia to the european union, which became the 28th member state of the union on 1 july 2013. the aim of the 1999 agreement, signed in pretoria, was to provide economic and social support to south africa and to establish a regular political dialogue with that country. if i consider such cooperation necessary, since i have always advocated greater dialogue on the international scene, then to approve the report in question would be to think that i am in favour of ever greater enlargement of the borders of the european union. this is clearly not the case, as we are firmly opposed to any enlargement process and want our national sovereignty to be fully restored. therefore, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ the additional protocol is only intended to make some technical and linguistic amendments to the trade, development and cooperation agreement, which are necessary as a result of croatia's accession to the european union. the initial agreement signed in pretoria in 1999 aims to strengthen cooperation and support south africa in its economic and social transition process, as well as to expand and liberalise bilateral trade in goods, services and capital. i abstained because the text was only technical and legal.
in writing. ‒ since croatia's accession to the european union in july 2013, international treaties concluded by the union with third countries have to take account of this new accession. this report takes account of the accession of croatia to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states and the republic of south africa. i voted in favour of this text, which approves this change in protocol.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report which provides for the approval of the conclusion of an additional protocol to the agreement on trade and development and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. the protocol is only intended to make the necessary amendments to this trade agreement to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. the agreement signed in pretoria in 1999 is designed to strengthen cooperation and development policies with south africa. i am also in favour of the regular political dialogue aspect of the agreement with that country, particularly as it does not provide for any specific financial allocation but for provisions on the fight against drugs and money laundering. however, i could not be entirely in favour of an agreement which is part of the logic of an endless enlargement of the eu. i therefore abstained. while i am in favour of cooperation with south africa, i am opposed to the principle of unlimited enlargement.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give the european parliament's consent to the ratification of an additional protocol approved by the council in october 2014 to allow croatia's accession to the trade, development and cooperation agreement with the republic of south africa. i think it is right that croatia, as a full member of the european union, should become a party to the trade, development and cooperation agreement with the republic of south africa, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ parliament gave its consent to the council concluding on behalf of the eu and its member states the additional agreement to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu in 2013 in the trade, development and cooperation agreement (tdc) between the european community and the republic of south africa of 11 october 1999. simple technical and linguistic changes will be made to take account of this development and to update the existing agreement.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the recommendation on the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa (protocol to take account of the accession of croatia). this recommendation encourages support for the union's enlargement plans. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. the entry of croatia into the union is a door open to migrants from the western balkans who wish to reach central europe. while increased cooperation with south africa is desirable, a green light for the supranational institutions on enlargement is unthinkable. my abstention was therefore necessary to protect our states from european gigantism.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because i am opposed to any further enlargement, but there is no possibility here of opposing the eu-south africa bilateral agreements.
in writing. - i decided to abstain on this vote. this is an additional protocol made necessary by the accession of croatia to the union. the agreement contains technical and linguistic amendments. the aid package for south africa will help the poorest, for whom the last 20 years have been particularly difficult. this aid amounts to eur 241 million over the period 2014-2020. regular political dialogue is also being established to make the financial allocation more effective and efficient. the aim of this agreement, signed in 1999, was to strengthen cooperation and support the process of economic and social transition. however, i cannot support the policy of enlargement of the union, and therefore, for reasons of political consistency, i preferred not to vote for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague davor ivo stier on the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa. an additional memorandum of understanding is currently under discussion with south africa with a view to including croatia in the agreement; as the last member state to join the union, it was not a party to the agreement until now. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the additional protocol to the agreement on trade, development and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the agreement on trade, development and cooperation with south africa (protocol to take account of the accession of croatia). this is partly due to the opposition in principle to any further enlargement of the european union. on the other hand, i am certainly not opposed to bilateral relations between the european union and south africa.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the proposal to approve the conclusion of this additional protocol. croatia has been a member since 1 july 2013. although i can support the development of relations between the european union and south africa, this proposal is part of the enlargement of the union. in addition, the bulk of cooperation assistance to south africa is financed from the union budget. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. in addition to my opposition to the european union's enlargement policy, i believe that, as is so often the case, the european union is pursuing a policy of interference. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this vote was to amend the agreement between the eu and south africa following the accession of croatia. in this case, the changes were purely technical and linguistic. although we are not opposed to dialogue between the eu and south africa, we are against enlargement of the eu and we were against croatia's accession. so we abstained.
in writing. ‒ an agreement on trade, development and cooperation (the cdc agreement) between the eu and south africa has been in progress since 2004. in order to take account of the accession of croatia, the memorandum of understanding should be amended to include croatia. i am opposed to free trade agreements and to any new accession to the eu, and i can only oppose this amendment, even if it remains purely technical. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this is an additional protocol made necessary by croatia's accession to the union. the agreement contains technical and linguistic amendments. the aid package for south africa will help the poorest, for whom the last 20 years have been particularly difficult. this aid amounts to eur 241 million over the period 2014-2020. regular political dialogue is also being established to make the financial allocation more effective and efficient. the aim of this agreement, signed in 1999, was to strengthen cooperation and support the process of economic and social transition. however, it is not possible to support the enlargement policy of the union, and therefore, for reasons of political consistency, i preferred not to vote for this text.
in writing. following the accession of croatia to the eu on 1 july 2013, thus becoming the 29th member state, this report seeks to approve the conclusion of the additional protocol amending the ctbt agreement by technical and linguistic changes. the aim of this agreement, signed in pretoria in 1999, was to provide economic and social support to south africa by establishing a political dialogue with the leaders of the state. however, if i consider that this exchange and cooperation with sovereign states is essential to the proper functioning of international relations, then accepting this report would suggest that i am in favour of an indefinite enlargement of the eu's borders. however, as i am opposed to the eu playing any role in the foreign policy of the member states, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ as i am opposed to any enlargement of the european union, i can only be opposed to measures that go in that direction. however, this is a technical text to take account of croatia's accession to the eu. the initial agreement signed in pretoria in 1999 aims to strengthen cooperation and support south africa in its economic and social transition process, as well as to expand and liberalise bilateral trade in goods, services and capital. the agreement also establishes a regular political dialogue. it would not be very relevant to vote against but i want to express my disagreement with the eu's enlargement policy and therefore i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved on wednesday the conclusion of the additional protocol to the trade, development and cooperation agreement with south africa, which entered into force in 2004. i voted in favour of this text, which mainly makes the technical and linguistic changes to the original agreement following croatia's accession to the union in july 2013.
mr president, the fight against money laundering and, therefore, against organised crime and terrorism, yes! but do you seriously believe for one moment that organized crime and terrorism run through the ordinary circuits of banks? the perverse effect of this system is that in my own country, france, under the influence of state regulation, every banker has been turned into a spy, a surveillance officer, a whistle-blower of his clients. for example, after having paid off a personal debt of €10,000 some time ago, which was perfectly in my bank account, i had to explain myself to my banker, who called me, finding this transaction abnormal and asking me what i was doing with my money. i said that at my age, young mistresses are more expensive than they used to be. that was inaccurate, i'm a faithful husband to his wife. that answer didn't seem satisfactory. the circuit is then set in motion: tracfin is informed, the financial brigade investigates... these are absolutely perverse effects of this legislation. the same is true of the kredietbank in brussels, the european parliament's agency, where even your european passport is not enough to prove your domicile! this is financial terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this draft resolution aims to update the third anti-money laundering directive. this directive applies a risk-based approach and aims to strengthen the european union's defenses against money laundering and terrorist financing. to this end, the council and parliament have introduced various amendments to safeguard the integrity and stability of the financial system. the commission would be responsible for coordinating the risk assessment of money laundering and terrorist financing. the directive provides in particular for the provision of beneficial ownership information in respect of companies. each member state could consult this information. the text provides in particular for the introduction of maximum administrative pecuniary sanctions. i believe that these measures are necessary to combat this ferocious problem. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the directive on the fight against money laundering because it is necessary to adapt the european legal framework for the supervision of financial circuits and to ensure greater transparency in their operation. the aim is to oblige member states to keep central registers accessible to the competent authorities (financial intelligence units, banks) or to organisations and persons with a legitimate interest (investigative journalists). the text also extends the scope of application of the natural and legal persons concerned by lowering the threshold to eur 10 000 for cash payments, which will have to be subject to special supervision. the directive also provides for financial penalties of a minimum threshold of eur 1 million or eur 5 million if the infringement involves banks or financial entities. the commission will be responsible for coordinating the assessment of money laundering and terrorist financing risks affecting the internal market. i voted for this directive because we need to adopt clear rules to strengthen our control over illegal money laundering activities which benefit organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to prevent the financial system from being used for money laundering and terrorist financing. it seems to me to be a step in the right direction and a good thing, in that money laundering and the financing of terrorism are common sense objectives which we must fight against with the utmost firmness. the changes proposed in this text, made necessary by the changing nature of terrorist financing and money laundering, seem to me appropriate and that is why i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ we need strong european legislation to combat money laundering. this will enable us, among other things, to combat the financing of terrorism. this legislation is the result of a compromise between security and privacy. in the fight against terrorism and money laundering, we must have a european response. greater transparency in this area will help to achieve this. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the recommendations of krisjanis karins and judith sargentini and timothy kirkhope and peter simon on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. by requiring member states to keep information on beneficial owners of legal persons and trusts in a centralised register, by harmonising competences across borders within the union, both between member states and between their financial intelligence units, and by providing for a european analysis of terrorist financing to be carried out by the commission, the european union is embarking on an ambitious project which represents a major step forward in the transparency of access to beneficial owners information. the union will undoubtedly be at the forefront of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ i have taken a position in favour of this directive to combat money laundering, which is used in particular to finance terrorism. the text is the result of a compromise between parliament and the council and is designed to strengthen the integrity and soundness of the european financial system. for example, gambling is regulated and providers must exercise due diligence for transactions of €2,000 or more; the text is realistic, however, since it leaves a margin of manoeuvre to the member states, which would be allowed to exempt these services, with the exception of casinos, from certain obligations in limited and justified circumstances. i also support the approach developed by the directive which is based on an assessment of the risks, which would be assessed by the commission for those which could affect the internal market. i would nevertheless criticise the council's position which makes no distinction between those who hold or have held important posts in the national territory or abroad.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to revise directive 2005/60/ec with a view to strengthening the rules applicable in the context of the internal market and preventing the misuse of the european financial system for criminal purposes. i also voted in favour of this text, considering that in the current context of the terrorist threat, financial transfers must be made more transparent and better controlled in order to avoid money laundering that allows terrorist networks and activities to be financed.
in writing. parliament endorses the commission's proposal to revise the anti-money laundering directive at second reading. as criminal organisations are always finding new ways to circumvent the rules, it is necessary to change our legislation. this is all the more important as money laundering is a source of funding for terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. i have long called for increased resources to prevent the financing of terrorist activities. the adoption of this directive is one of those means, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the total amount of money laundered represents 5% of global gdp each year. the european parliament has called for stricter rules on money laundering to combat tax evasion and terrorist financing. fraudsters will no longer be able to use the anonymity of offshore companies and accounts to hide their financial transactions. the owners of businesses will now have to be registered in central registers kept by the member states. these registers will be accessible to the competent authorities and their financial intelligence units, as well as to persons with a 'legitimate interest' such as journalists. these provisions place the european union at the forefront of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because i am in principle in favour of any progress in the repressive direction of the relentless fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 20 may, i voted in favour of a new directive to strengthen the eu's rules against money laundering and terrorist financing. the actual owners of companies will now have to be registered in the central registers of eu countries, which are open to both the authorities and to persons with a 'legitimate interest', such as investigative journalists. this is the first time that a directive will oblige member states to keep such central registers. meps also approved a regulation on 'transfers of funds', which aims to improve the traceability of payers and beneficiaries and their assets. the vote is a strong signal from the european parliament against tax evasion and the financing of terrorism. the eradication of such illegal practices requires strong political will and cooperation at all levels. both money laundering and terrorist financing constitute obstacles to the smooth functioning, stability of the financial system and the well-being of society.
in writing. ‒ every year, money laundering accounts for 2 to 5% of global gdp. money laundering, terrorist financing and organised crime are major problems that require a european response. in this context, it is therefore crucial to advocate the adoption of clear rules that strengthen the vigilance of all the professionals concerned and allow for greater financial transparency. financial transparency is an indispensable tool in the effective fight against money laundering. that is why i supported this directive on money laundering. it obliges member states, for the first time, to keep central registers containing information on the beneficial owners of companies and trusts. the commission had not considered these registers, but parliament had advocated their introduction to put an end to the anonymity of offshore companies and accounts used by fraudsters to conceal their financial transactions. the conditions for access to this register are not as ambitious as we had advocated, but it is a first step that must be encouraged. parliament will remain vigilant to continue to defend the widest possible access to information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the revised directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. the fight against terrorist threats must be a priority. cutting off the supply of funds is therefore an essential weapon in the fight that our democracies must wage against criminal organizations and terrorist groups. this directive provides that information on beneficial owners is to be kept in a central register maintained by each member state. access to information is not restricted to the competent authorities but to any person or organisation that can demonstrate a legitimate interest in accessing such information. in my view, this decision meets two demands of the citizens: greater transparency and security.
in writing. ‒ this draft resolution aims to update the third anti-money laundering directive. the approach of this directive is risk-based and seeks to strengthen the eu's defenses against money laundering and terrorist financing the council and parliament have therefore added amendments to preserve the independence and stability of the financial system. the text also provides for the commission to be responsible for coordinating the risk assessment of money laundering and terrorist financing. the directive provides in particular for the provision of beneficial ownership information in respect of companies, and all member states could consult this information. i believe that these measures are necessary to combat this ferocious problem. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues karins and sagentini on money laundering and terrorist financing. the objective of this report is to strengthen the union's legislative framework to combat money laundering more effectively and to better track money laundering in order to prevent the financing of terrorism. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on combating money laundering and terrorist financing. this fight will require greater transparency in financial transfers and a strengthening of the internal market rules. i welcome the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ these new anti-money laundering rules make it possible to make progress in the disclosure of the real owners of companies and entities. the new directive requires that central registers be set up in all eu countries listing the ultimate owners of companies. the idea is that tax authorities, especially tax authorities, can have reliable information that allows them to see who owns what and thus be able to estimate the wealth of certain individuals or to see precisely between whom suspicious transactions are made. such registers should also be accessible to persons with a 'legitimate interest', such as investigative journalists. this is a real step forward, especially since some european countries, including france, have announced their intention to make these registers public. i therefore supported this text and call for rapid implementation and the utmost transparency. i regret, however, that trusts (complex structures of ownership of companies or entities) will benefit from a specific regime exempting them from these rules: the fight against money laundering and tax evasion must apply to everyone and even more so to those who try to hide their assets and transactions through these opaque structures.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. the fight against money laundering linked to terrorism is a priority for the front national. in view of the increasing number of terrorist acts and money laundering schemes, it is essential to respond swiftly and firmly with appropriate legal tools. this report covers only one side of the terrorism issue, the essential point of restoring national borders still being obscured by the eu.
in writing. ‒ according to the international monetary fund, money laundering is widespread, amounting to almost 5% of global gdp. the new directive aims to improve the current framework to prevent the financial system from being used to convert the proceeds of criminal activities into lawful funds. this includes improving the functioning of business registers by making it compulsory to identify the beneficial owner of the business or commercial transaction. guarantees have been given as regards the protection of personal data in compliance with european regulations. but the text, focusing on the financing of terrorism, avoids the question of the wild liberalization of capital flows and the opaque financial rules that allow this fraud. i would gladly abstain in order to denounce this "forgetfulness", but i am voting in favour, which is still a small step forward.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. the fight against money laundering linked to terrorism is an imperative reason of public interest. i also think that the content of this text is appropriate to the situation and therefore goes in the right direction. in the face of the rapidly evolving nature of terrorism and money laundering, it is essential to respond swiftly and firmly with a suitable legal arsenal. if the eu can be accused of putting a modest veil on the essential issues, such as the restoration of borders and some form of capital control, which would kill money laundering in the first place, i still voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ attacking the financing of terrorism is without doubt one of the most effective methods of combating this phenomenon which destroys entire countries in the middle east and also directly threatens member states, as we unfortunately saw again in paris last january. all measures to improve the control of financial flows should be encouraged. that is why i support this text.
in writing. ‒ money laundering threatens our economy but also the security of our citizens. this illegal activity may contribute to the financing of certain terrorist movements. the union is trying to put in place legislative tools to combat money laundering effectively and in the long term. the european parliament adopted the fourth anti-money laundering directive. i voted in favour of this text, which for the first time will make it possible to oblige the eu member states to keep central registers containing information on the beneficial owners of companies.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which aims to strengthen the european union's defenses against money laundering and terrorist financing and to ensure the soundness, integrity and stability of the financial system. in order to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing, member states will need to maintain central registers containing information on the owners of companies and other legal entities. at the same time, banks, auditors, real estate agents and casinos should be more vigilant about suspicious transactions that may be carried out by their customers.
in writing. ‒ laundered capital accounts for 2 to 5% of world gdp per capita n. this dirty money undermines the stability of the financial sector while benefiting organised crime and terrorism the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it requires us to adapt the legal framework to the new situation. i therefore welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this directive which provides for increased supervision of financial circuits and greater transparency of their functioning. this fourth anti-money laundering directive will, for the first time, oblige eu member states to keep registers of all money laundering offences. these registers will have to list all information relating to the 'real' owners of the companies. the commission will be able to provide information on the implementation of the programme to the member states and to the commission. the new rules on the monitoring of transfers of funds have also been introduced. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the road network. in some instances, member states have tried to protect the interests of the i would like to stress that this vote shows that a determined political impulse cannot be buried by a few vested interests. the commission has
in writing. the purpose of this vote is to adopt the recommendation for second reading on the regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006. the regulation aims to amend and update the existing anti-money laundering regulation to improve the traceability of payments and bring eu standards in this area into line with international law. this regulation is a step in the right direction and proposes strong measures such as the traceability of money transfers. in addition, there is a whole arsenal of administrative sanctions, so i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the draft regulation is to revise regulation (ec) no 1781/2006 on information on the principal accompanying transfers of funds in order to improve the traceability of payments. the strengthening of legislation is one of the ways of combating money laundering. however, the effect of improving the traceability of payments should not be to infringe the privacy of users of banking services. the european commission has taken account of the requests of the members on this matter and i have given a favourable opinion on the text.
in writing. ‒ a european regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds is a necessary step in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. we must all make sure that there is a european response in this area. a balance must be struck between the security of citizens and the protection of private data. i voted in favour of the introduction of such a regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report endorsing the council's position on information accompanying transfers of funds. this is an important issue, since the traceability of funds is linked to money laundering, the financing of illegal and criminal activities and even the financing of terrorism, an issue which, as everyone knows, is very close to my heart. the principle of free movement of capital, imposed by the european union, is known to facilitate financial embezzlement by breaking down barriers, allowing cross-border flows with reduced controls. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the union. control that will allow for greater transparency and slightly improve the probity of financial institutions.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to enhance the traceability of payments and transfers of funds within the internal market in order to prevent and detect all money laundering and terrorist financing activities. this relatively technical text is the counterpart to the report on preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report is part of the latest legislative package proposed by the european commission to improve our anti-money laundering tools. its adoption is dedicated to upgrading european standards with the recommendations of the financial action task force, an intergovernmental body in which the european union is very active. in the case of electronic funds transfers, it is important to ensure precise traceability of the originator and the beneficiary throughout the payment chain. the role of the committee on which i sit, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, was to ensure that adequate data protection was ensured.
in writing. ‒ to combat the financing of terrorism, the new european regulation on the regulation of money transfers strengthens the control by financial institutions of money transfer operations, especially international ones, by enriching the information provided and substantially limiting the anonymity of these operations. the proposed measures will make it possible to trace the origin of funds more accurately, using debit and credit card information, as well as data contained in mobile phones or other digital and computer devices. the sanctioning powers of the competent authorities will also be strengthened. this legislation will improve the monitoring and prevention of fraud. at the same time, the use of data must respect the confidentiality and privacy of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am in favour of stricter controls on all transfers of funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues kirkhope and simon on information accompanying transfers of funds. the report aims to repeal regulation (ec) no 1781/2006 in order to create a new, updated regulation and to better monitor funds that can be used for terrorist financing and money laundering. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006, in order to improve the traceability of transfers, prevent money laundering and combat the financing of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to adopt the recommendation on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006. the aim of the proposal is to amend and update the existing anti-money laundering regulation to improve the traceability of payments and bring eu standards on this matter into line with international law. this recommendation is therefore based on the recommendations of the financial action task force (fatf), but sometimes goes further, in particular on the traceability of transfers of funds; the different european banking and financial authorities could issue guidelines to the competent authorities and payment service providers on the measures to be taken. a whole arsenal of administrative sanctions is also provided for.
in writing. ‒ the lack of effective information requirements in the financial sector allows for massive fraud and illicit money flows in this sector. the proposal introduces an obligation for payment service providers to record information on the originator and the recipient of funds when executing a transfer of more than eur 1 000. although some improvements were made to this text at second reading, in particular on the means of controlling the information accompanying transfers of funds, this attempt to introduce control of the financial sector only concerns the tip of the iceberg. the report does not mention the wild liberalization of capital flows, the transfer pricing that allows large groups to avoid paying taxes, or the austerity that is decimating tax controls. i still vote for this little advance.
in writing. the purpose of this vote is to adopt the recommendation on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on information accompanying transfers of funds and repealing regulation (ec) no 1781/2006. the aim of the proposal is to amend and update the existing anti-money laundering regulation to improve the traceability of payments and bring eu standards on this matter into line with international law. this recommendation is therefore based on the recommendations of the financial action task force (fatf), but sometimes goes further, in particular on the traceability of transfers of funds; the different european banking and financial authorities could issue guidelines to the competent authorities and payment service providers on the measures to be taken. a whole arsenal of administrative sanctions is also provided for. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ anything that allows for more transparency in financial movements is a positive thing. efforts are still very limited and the reform of financial practices is unfortunately not a real priority. i support this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the lack of transparency and irregularities in the transfer of funds, the union is trying to legislate to increase the transparency of these financial movements. meps adopted a regulation on the transfer of funds on wednesday. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to improve the traceability of payers, beneficiaries and their assets.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this amendment to the community regulation of 29 may 2000 is to protect creditors in the case of crossborder companies. this text assigns jurisdiction to the state in which the company has 'the centre of its main interests' and thus provides that creditors seek the most favourable national court, which i welcome. however, the possibility for the creditor to have recourse to the courts of his own state, provided that he has property there, is excluded. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. this recommendation for second reading by tadeusz zwiefka aims to amend the community regulation of 29 may 2000 on insolvency proceedings to improve the protection of creditors in the event of the insolvency of a company being of a crossborder nature. several hundred thousand jobs are linked to crossborder insolvency proceedings and it is proposed to save companies considered to be sound but facing temporary financial difficulties. while these provisions are commendable, i can only say that they undermine the sovereignty of the member states, but also that these failures are the result of european policies which have been pursued for years. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council amends the community regulation of 29 may 2000 on insolvency proceedings. it is designed to protect creditors against insolvency in crossborder transactions. this text assigns jurisdiction to the member state in which the debtor undertaking has its principal centre of interests in order to combat the abusive search for the most favourable national court. on the contrary, the text deprives the creditor of the possibility of initiating secondary proceedings before the courts of his own state where the debtor has property there. as a defender of the rule of law, i finally voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr zwiefka's recommendations, which validate the compromise text from the trilogue as adopted by the council at first reading. the new rules on crossborder insolvency proceedings approved today by the european parliament will facilitate the restructuring of companies whose insolvency has a crossborder dimension. they will also clarify the process for designating the courts with jurisdiction and thus avoid the practice of forum shopping to choose the court which is likely to provide the most favourable judgment. i also welcome the creation of an electronic register to improve the monitoring of crossborder insolvency proceedings in the union. all these measures should help to define a more efficient framework for both debtors and creditors while giving honest entrepreneurs the chance to restructure their businesses in order to operate better in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which amends the community regulation of 29 may 2000 on insolvency proceedings. i admit that i do agree with the report that it is worthwhile to attribute jurisdiction to the courts of the member state in which the debtor company has its 'centre of main interests', which puts the principle of reality at the centre of the procedure. however, the possibility for the creditor to bring secondary proceedings before the courts of his own state is all too limited. while i welcome the intention of this text to protect creditors in the event of the insolvency of a crossborder company, i consider that the effort is too small, especially since the proposed measures constitute an infringement of national sovereignty, and i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to revise the current legislation on insolvency proceedings to include crossborder insolvency cases, which regularly cause legal conflicts and jurisdictional conflicts. i believe that the aim is not to unify national insolvency laws but to settle the conflicts of laws and jurisdiction of the member states, with a view to ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market, and i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the european parliament voted to update the eu's legislation on crossborder insolvency of companies. in 2014, i had already supported this text in the first reading. the harmonization of national rules on insolvency proceedings makes it possible to strengthen the internal market. clarifying the areas of competence of the member states is a guarantee of legal certainty for companies operating in the european union. in this respect, i reiterate my support for the proposal to establish a european insolvency register to check whether proceedings have already been opened in a member state.
in writing. ‒ although there are many positive elements in this resolution, i voted against it because i believe that this type of measure should be the responsibility of the states.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to amend the community regulation of 29 may 2000. the aim of this amendment is to protect creditors in the case of investments in crossborder companies. this text, it should be noted, assigns jurisdiction to the state in which the undertaking has 'the centre of its main interests'. the creditor is therefore invited to seek the most favourable national court. however, the creditor cannot, even if he has property in his own state, have recourse to the courts of that state. it is a violation of the principle of sovereignty and citizenship. i therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr tadeusz zwiefka, on insolvency proceedings. the report endorses the council's position on the harmonisation of the different insolvency procedures in the european union through the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1346/2000. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on insolvency proceedings. in order to respond to crossborder insolvencies, this recommendation advocates the creation of a unified european framework which ensures the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this recommendation is to amend the community regulation of 29 may 2000 on insolvency proceedings in order to improve the protection of creditors in the event of crossborder insolvency of a company. indeed, 400 000 job losses in the eu are linked to crossborder business insolvency proceedings. the idea is to create a 'european culture' of 'rescue and recovery' by giving a second chance to firms that are considered to be robust but are facing financial difficulties. however, it may be objected that the failures of enterprises are also linked to the budgetary austerity introduced by brussels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to protect creditors in the event of crossborder insolvency of a company. this text contains a positive point in that it assigns jurisdiction to the courts of the member state in which the debtor undertaking is established. however, this text also undermines the sovereignty of the states, since it prevents creditors from initiating secondary proceedings before the courts of their own state of origin, provided that the debtor has assets there. i therefore voted against this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the insolvency regulation establishes a european framework for crossborder insolvency proceedings. it shall therefore apply where a debtor, whether a natural or a legal person, has assets or creditors in more than one member state. the regulation aims to put in place procedures to help debtors in serious financial difficulty recover, so as to help healthy businesses survive and give entrepreneurs a second chance. it also helps to combat organised insolvency. the scope of this regulation was extended at second reading to secondary proceedings (where liquidation is not necessary). i am voting for this text, although i regret that the definition of the actual seat of the undertakings is not clearly defined.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this amendment to the community regulation of 29 may 2000 is to protect creditors in the case of crossborder companies. the positive aspect of this text is that it assigns jurisdiction to the state in which the company has 'the centre of its main interests' and that it thus provides that creditors seek the most favourable national court. however, the possibility for the creditor to have recourse to the courts of his own state, provided that he has property there, is excluded. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the aim of this recommendation is to amend the community regulation of 29 may 2000 on insolvency proceedings in order to improve the protection of creditors in the event of the insolvency of a company being of a crossborder nature. indeed, 400 000 job losses in the eu are linked to crossborder business insolvency proceedings. the idea is to create a 'european culture' of 'rescue and recovery' by giving a second chance to firms that are considered to be robust but are facing financial difficulties. however, it may be objected that the failures of enterprises are also linked to the budgetary austerity introduced by brussels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this text amends the community regulation of 29 may 2000 on insolvency proceedings. it is designed to protect creditors in cases where the insolvency of a company is of a cross-border nature. it has the merit of conferring jurisdiction on the courts of the member state in which the debtor undertaking has its principal centre of interests. the reality of the place of business of the company is thus used as a criterion for the attribution of jurisdiction, which makes it possible to exclude forum shopping, that is to say the abusive search by cross-border debtors for the most favourable national jurisdiction. however, this provision has the disadvantage of overly restricting the possibility for the creditor to bring secondary proceedings before the courts of his own state, provided that the debtor has assets in that state. it is therefore a clear attack on national sovereignty and therefore out of the question for me to support it. despite the positive aspects of the report, i am voting against it in order to defend the sovereignty of the states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the recast of the insolvency procedure regulation. it is necessary to clarify european legislation and to have a common position on this issue.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to restrict and provide a precise framework for the trade in minerals in areas of current or future war or violent conflict. many factional groups, terrorists and radical islamists have been able to obtain weapons and ammunition by exploiting these so-called "blood" minerals. this is particularly the case in the great lakes region of africa. the commission proposal is not satisfactory in this case, since it retains a self-certification mechanism for companies that would import metals into europe. parliament has mandated that companies verify that their supply chain is not tainted by blood minerals. this text, although inspired by a laudable intention, is not satisfactory enough for me to vote in favour of it. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amended proposal because, with the adoption of this report, every european smelter and refiner and every importer will now be required to certify that their imported minerals are clean and do not come from conflict zones. at the same time, european smes will receive financial support to establish traceability of these minerals and thus be awarded a conflict-free label.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the european self-certification mechanism for importers of certain ores and metals originating in conflict or high-risk areas. this text attempts to address the problem of illegal mining in conflict zones. importers of these metals or ores can obtain a responsible importer certificate based on an oecd guide to the matter. the companies concerned must keep all traceability elements showing that they are not buying from illegal mines. the checks are carried out by the member states each year and the rules relating to infringements are made by the states which may decide to withdraw the certificate of responsible importer. i abstained on this report to avoid the resale of minerals extracted from illegal areas, while expressing reservations about the desire of some to impose our european values on all countries of the world. i think that the scope of the legislation should be extended to other metals and that much more stringent measures should be taken, particularly for marketing companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a report which, in my view, lays the foundations for an effective and realistic system and puts an end to the financing of conflicts by the exploitation of conflict minerals by the belligerents. by making traceability of minerals mandatory for key players in the industry, the purity of imported minerals is ensured. the support to be given to european smes in implementing this traceability makes this gradual approach operational. the award of the conflict-free label must be the consecration of a transparent and peace-making system. in three years' time it will be time to evaluate the operation of this system and, why not, to increase the obligations and the number of ores covered by this legislation if the applicability of the process is demonstrated. for the time being, we can be pleased that we have opted for an ambitious line which represents a great step forward in preventing armed conflict linked to minerals.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report which provides for the establishment of a self-certification mechanism for importers of certain minerals and metals originating in conflict or high-risk areas. this procedure will certainly help to limit as far as possible what is commonly called the trafficking in blood diamonds and other precious metals obtained illegally or by violence. the european mechanism would build on the relevant oecd standards that allow metal importers to obtain a responsible importer certificate, in particular if they fulfil due diligence obligations in their supply chain. the traceability of imported metals should be ensured and the activities of the importer verified by an importing third party body, while member states will be responsible for verifying the application of the regulations and, where appropriate, taking corrective action in the event of an infringement. however, the measures as provided for in the text will lead to unilateral sanctions on european companies by increasing the processing costs of certain metals, even though competing companies, especially asian ones, will certainly not have to submit to such constraints.
in writing. ‒ the present report proposes to set up a european self-certification mechanism for importers of certain minerals in order to break the link between mining and trade in minerals, on the one hand, and the financing of armed conflict, on the other. the report also aims to support the development of a european market for responsibly mined conflict minerals and to improve the ability of operators throughout the supply chain to comply with due diligence obligations. i believe that in such a complex matter it is necessary to propose a fair and realistic system to achieve the objectives envisaged, and i have therefore decided to support the establishment of a compulsory system upstream for ore importers and smelters and refiners, and a voluntary system downstream for small and mediumsized enterprises. i support the objectives of this report but consider that a vote in plenary in favour of a mandatory system of traceability and certification throughout the supply chain, i.e. over 880,000 companies, will be difficult to implement, so i decided not to block the forthcoming discussions with the council and therefore abstained on this text.
in writing. with the adoption of this text, we have taken an important step in the european parliament with regard to the import of minerals from areas of armed conflict. i voted in favour of a binding approach for all companies producing, importing and processing tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. this obligation to be transparent should enable the european union to stop financing conflicts and human rights violations, particularly in africa, through the purchase of minerals. parliament can now negotiate with the council with a strong and ambitious position. despite the administrative burden that our vote may place on european businesses, i remain convinced that only an ambitious regulation can live up to our values. the european union now has the opportunity to be a global leader in transparency and social responsibility in its trade relations with conflict zones.
in writing. ‒ we all share a common goal: to break the link between mine exploitation and armed conflict. we believe that traceability should be mandatory for all key players in the sector. the european parliament's vote means that every european smelter, refiner and importer will now have to certify that their imported minerals are clean and do not come from conflict zones. at the same time, european smes will receive financial support to establish traceability of these minerals and thus be awarded a conflict-free label. after three years, we have a date clause. we will be able to take stock of this regulation, to assess very concretely what has worked and what has not. the commission will then be able to increase the obligations, and we will also be able to expand the number of minerals which are covered by this legislation. this european legislation can then serve as a model for creating positive dynamics in other regions of the world. parliament must now negotiate with the council in trilogue on the basis of the amendments adopted with a view to a compromise at first reading.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote because the text adopted in plenary does not seem realistic to me, but i did not want to block it by a negative vote, since i fully share the main objective, which is to stop the financing of armed groups by the trade in these four minerals from conflict or high-risk areas. i am afraid that what has been voted is difficult to apply because more than 800 000 companies (multinational and smes) are being asked to put in place a binding system involving audits. i therefore wished, by voting on the amendments, to support a realistic and progressive approach going beyond the commission's proposal. i wanted a system that was mandatory upstream (mineral importers and smelters/refiners) and voluntary downstream (companies) with the introduction of a label. this approach allowed firstly to hold the actors accountable and secondly, through the revision of the regulation, to strengthen the measures prepared and therefore applicable.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the european mechanism for self-certification of importers of certain minerals and metals from conflict zones. i am of course in favour of not using minerals extracted from conflict zones to finance the belligerents. this is particularly the case in the democratic republic of congo and the great lakes region. europe accounts for 35% of world trade in the minerals concerned (gold, tin, tantalum, tungsten). nearly 900 000 companies, many of them smes, are involved in this trade. under the mechanism proposed by the european commission, importers of these metals create responsible importer certificates themselves, i.e. self-certify. however, the mechanism, as amended by the european parliament, should oblige european companies to get involved in checking that their supply chain is not corrupted by 'blood minerals'. so this is good news, but it is not yet the final agreement on legislation and it is clear that this mechanism is essentially based on the goodwill of importers.
in writing. "conflict minerals" such as tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold are found in most of the electronic devices we use every day. the financial manna that is produced is used to feed criminal networks, warlords, and militias, which are responsible for all kinds of extortion. every day this traffic is organized by companies operating in europe, which are unscrupulous and have little regard for respect for fundamental rights. the text submitted to parliament and amended by the s&d group imposes a duty of 'due diligence' on the entire supply chain, from the extraction of the ore to the sale of the consumer product. this binding measure will oblige companies operating in europe to comply with the fundamental rights. i voted for this text because it is a major step forward in the fight against a trade which fuels the destruction of human lives. by adopting this text, parliament is demonstrating that the values at the heart of the european project always inspire its actors and that the best interests of the people are better than the unbridled pursuit of profit.
in writing. ‒ parliament voted in favour of a european self-certification mechanism for importers of minerals and metals from conflict or high-risk areas. beyond the unanimously shared objective of cutting off the sources of funding for armed groups, there is a duty of realism which we owe to the citizens of europe. it is impossible to propose a system of compulsory self-certification for the whole production chain. how can an sme be sure that the ore it uses to make its product does not come from a conflict zone? i am of the opinion that, like the consumer who is not responsible for the manufacturing process of the clothing he wears, companies which use minerals cannot be fully informed of their origin. this is why i support a gradual but more effective approach: a mandatory system for the first actors in the chain (melting/refining plants and importers) and the creation of a label for the other actors in the chain in order to create a responsible supply system. unfortunately, the position of parliament is unrealistic. i fear that the effects will be neutralized by excessive control, which will be contrary to the interests of the local populations.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to restrict and provide a precise framework for the trade in minerals in areas of war or violent conflict or in the future. many factional groups, bandits and perhaps, in the future, islamists, are able to obtain weapons and ammunition through the exploitation of these minerals, known as "blood". this is particularly the case in the great lakes region of africa. however, while one cannot help but be appalled by this situation, the commission's proposal is not satisfactory in this case, since it retains a self-certification mechanism for companies that would import metals into europe. fortunately, parliament has succeeded in amending this text so that companies must check that their supply chain is not tainted by blood minerals. this text, although it is intended with a laudable intention, is not satisfactory enough for me to vote in favour of it: i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote on my colleague iuliu winkler's report following a proposal by the european commission to set up a voluntary european self-certification mechanism for importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores and gold from conflict or high-risk areas. it is essential to end all funding of armed groups through trade in these four minerals, to fight corruption and to ensure effective development assistance; i therefore advocated an approach that goes beyond the original proposal of the european commission. i have, for example, supported the proposal to make due diligence compulsory for the first actors in the chain. it is regrettable, however, that the final text is not operational because of the demagogy displayed by the left. it sets objectives and instruments which are not applicable in practice and contains a number of contradictions which will help to put parliament in a bad position in future negotiations with the council and the commission. i regret that the sensationalist and media temptations of some people are at the expense of an effective fight against the financing of armed groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european self-certification mechanism, under supply chain due diligence, for importers of minerals from conflict zones. in this vote we have called for binding legislation to be adopted on the traceability of the use of four minerals: tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, which have been mined in countries affected by war for several years. future legislation should therefore allow for systematic certification of these minerals by the european union to ensure that they do not in any way fuel conflict and human rights violations in conflict zones, such as rape, regularly used in some countries as a weapon of war. we are well aware that this binding legislation could place a burden, particularly financial, on some european companies, but the moral and human stakes are too great for the european union and the european parliament to remain passive on this issue.
in writing. ‒ this text is a significant step forward in regulating the import of minerals from conflict zones, particularly the great lakes area. these rare minerals, tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, must no longer be used to finance the many guerrillas and paramilitary groups in the region, which are guilty of violent extortion, act with impunity and often force the local population to participate in the extraction. europe, which is one of the main markets for consumer electronics (including mobile phones and plasma displays) using these minerals, could not sit idly by and lag behind. the united states has been grappling with the problem since 2010. that is why i supported this text which goes much further than the commission's proposals by imposing a compulsory system of mineral certification. the 880 000 european companies using these metals will therefore have to participate in a traceability system along the entire supply chain, compared with only 19 previously. in this way we will ensure that these conflict minerals do not end up in our products and do not finance the criminal and heinous abuses of these armed groups.
in writing. this legislation aims to regulate the extraction by european companies of certain minerals and gold which play a key role in financing certain armed groups or security forces in conflict zones such as the great lakes region. a certification is therefore proposed. of course, the multinationals did not want it to be mandatory but only optional. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the information provided by the member states. even the american version of this legislation, on which the commission and the rapporteur rely, is binding. finally, my group's amendments were passed. the text is ambitious, i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to restrict and provide a precise framework for the trade in minerals in areas of war or violent conflict or in the future. many factional groups, bandits and perhaps, in the future, islamists, are able to obtain weapons and ammunition through the exploitation of these minerals, known as "blood". this is particularly the case in the great lakes region of africa. however, while one cannot help but be appalled by this situation, the commission's proposal is not satisfactory in this case, since it retains a self-certification mechanism for companies that would import metals into europe. fortunately, parliament has succeeded in amending this text so that companies must check that their supply chain is not tainted by blood minerals. this text, although it is intended with a good intention, is not satisfactory enough for me to vote for it. so i refrained.
in writing. this european self-certification mechanism for responsible importers of tin, tungsten, ores and gold from high-risk conflict zones is the very example of an administrative standard that is binding on industry and probably useless in effect. this mechanism does not seem to be adequate to address the problems raised in this report. how can we think that self-certification, i.e. the award of a label by the company itself and with a completely hypothetical control by the administrative authorities, can have any interest? this is one of the many numbers of the eu institutions to raise awareness of the tragic events taking place in conflict zones, and which highlights their total impotence. while the report's intention to avoid the resale of these minerals is commendable, it again shows the european institutions' desire to impose their "values" on the whole world. it is up to the member states to take responsibility and adopt real coercive measures. i therefore decided to abstain on that text.
in writing. the european commission's initial proposal was to set up a european self-certification mechanism for importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores and gold originating in conflict or high-risk areas. but the import of these minerals, which are found in many of our everyday objects, has dramatic consequences in importing countries that are too often ignored in our own. self-certification is far from sufficient because it will leave the industry in too comfortable a position in the face of the massacres perpetrated daily around the world for the extraction of these minerals. that is why i co-signed amendments to substantially strengthen this proposal by creating a mandatory monitoring mechanism for supply chains, from producers to importers of these minerals. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of controls on the sale of minerals. since these amendments were adopted in plenary, i decided to vote in favour of this very ambitious report, which still needs to be agreed with the council.
in writing. ‒ this text attempts to address the problem of rare earths being illegally exploited in conflict zones and thus contributing to the conflict. the project chosen is a self-certification mechanism for enterprises, based on an oecd guide. importers shall self-certify by fulfilling due diligence obligations in their supply chain. they must keep in their possession traceability evidence that they are not buying from illegal mines. the procedures and activities of the importer shall be verified by an independent third party. the member states will be responsible for the verification and enforcement of the regulation. in principle, taking measures to avoid financing conflicts is a good idea. unfortunately, the mechanism chosen, self-certification, is ineffective on the ground and will only penalise european companies. it is clear that minerals will leave conflict zones to be processed by companies in less-friendly countries than those in the eu and thus return to the soil of eu states in the form of finished products. i refuse to give my consent to this mechanism, which i strongly doubt, and i prefer to abstain.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the objective of the report is to support the development of a market in the union for responsibly sourced conflict minerals and to improve the capacity of actors in the supply chain to comply with the duty of care. this vote is a mess. some might welcome the few amendments that have been passed by a small majority, but they are not backed up by a structure that allows them to be applied. the commission and the council being closed to any progress on the commission's proposal, parliament could have been in a strong position. a comprehensive approach would have been required, with means to combat corruption, manage development aid and to link this to an instrument whose constraint could have been graduated over time for the 880 000 european companies. the european parliament could have taken a major action; with this vote he has only made an unheard-of appeal.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today's vote to end the sale of minerals (gold, diamonds, tantalum, tin, copper) to armed groups and to introduce a duty of care for all importing companies in the european union. these raw materials are used every day in the construction of various technologies (mobiles, tablets, etc.). however, their extraction affects the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. the commission's initial proposal was limited to the establishment of a non-binding european self-certification mechanism for only those companies directly importing raw materials up the supply chain. the scope of this mechanism would then have been very limited. with the support of civil society and citizens, left-wing parliamentarians and particularly socialists and democrats, we have succeeded in putting in place mandatory legislation for all companies in the supply chain. it is a victory over the european right, which wanted a discount mechanism. above all, it is a victory against the trafficking of 'blood minerals', against armed groups and for the establishment of a real european development policy.
in writing. ‒ the financing of armed groups through the trade in tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores and gold must cease. in voting on this text, i wanted to support a realistic and progressive approach which would have made due diligence mandatory for the upstream supply chain, i.e. smelters, refiners and importers, and voluntary for the rest of the companies in the chain. that is why i abstained on the final vote because a mandatory approach across the whole chain, i.e. over 800 000 european companies, whether multinational or small or medium-sized enterprises (smes), seems difficult to apply and implement. a gradual approach, notably through the revision clause allowing for a gradual widening of the scope of the regulation, would have been preferable. i also wanted to ensure that the discussions and negotiations on this text could continue.
in writing. ‒ the trade in minerals such as gold, diamonds, tantalum, tin and copper fuels armed conflicts, especially in africa. to seize the mineral lands, armed gangs spread terror through crime and rape. the european commission's initial draft on trade in these 'blood minerals', published in march 2014, was limited to an optional mechanism for importers to self-certify, which was ridiculous in view of the s.thanks to a left in parliament, we were able to find a majority to put in place legislation that obliges european companies, or not, to indicate the origin of minerals throughout the supply chain. t. an important step forward in the fight against the financing of conflict in mining regions this victory was achieved despite the protests of a large part of the right and the extreme right, more concerned with serving the interests of a few firms than saving the populations who are victims of the violence of armed gangs. the same people who will refuse to take in migrants in danger even after refusing to tackle the causes of their exodus. i will .
in writing. ‒ the draft regulation lays down a commendable principle: that of not encouraging the financing of armed groups which participate in guerrilla and terrorist actions and aggravate civil and interethnic wars, particularly on the african continent. these conflicts also fuel the migratory flows of refugees seeking to escape massacres. we cannot therefore ignore this issue. however, this text will lead to economic sanctions being imposed unilaterally on european companies importing minerals from conflict zones. the new rules will increase the processing costs of certain metals, which will have a negative impact on the european steel industry. finally, before regulating in the name of morality, the european union would be wise to first control the use of its funds in certain areas. i therefore choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the exploitation of minerals in conflict zones has been denounced for many years and has been the subject of wide-ranging citizen mobilizations. the european union imports a large amount of these minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten, gold, etc.). trade is often the cause of these conflicts. it is the source of massive corruption and fuels the financing of armed militias in these regions. these european companies are therefore largely complicit, directly or indirectly, in the crimes committed in these regions. at the time of the plenary vote, an alternative majority was available to extend the original legislative proposal to impose a transparency obligation and thus information on all companies in the supply chain. it may not seem enough, but it's a first step. the european parliament has adopted a position which will be submitted to the council. let us hope that this position will be maintained. allowing mineral wealth to be exploited for the benefit of the people is essential in many of the poorest countries. i hope that we can make some initial progress in this area. following...
in writing. ‒ this text concerns an amendment to annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards an exemption for cadmium in general lighting and screen lighting applications. it provides for the delegated act to be rejected and updated in line with the technologies available in europe. i also consider that the key justification of the commission for granting the new specific exemption is that '[i]n quantum cadmium-free boxes do not yet exist' and therefore that this justification is clearly unfounded. i therefore voted in favour of this point.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution deals with the prohibition of cadmium, a heavy metal which is dangerous to consumer health and the environment. the metal is still used in the manufacture of led screens and for lighting, thanks to an exemption valid until 30 june 2017. with the technological progress made, cadmium is no longer essential for the manufacture of certain led screens. the commission is also proposing to extend the exemption until 2017 to take account of technological developments and to incorporate the position of the european parliament. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to ban the dangerous heavy metal cadmium. the text also calls on the commission to take account of the position of the members on the subject. the envi committee members wanted to draw the commission's attention to a problem which was already anticipated by the industry in this field. cadmium, which has recognised harmful effects on health and the environment, is already excluded from the manufacture of displays by two of the largest distributors on the market, samsung and nanoco, which have replaced it with 'quantum boxes', nanostructures of semiconductors without cadmium; only large american companies continue to endanger consumers by continuing to use cadmium. i welcome the fact that parliament is seeking to ban this product, but i ask the commission to respect the views of members on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion is to object to the adoption by the european commission of a commission delegated directive amending, for the purpose of adapting it to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu concerning an exemption for cadmium in general lighting and screen lighting applications. point 39 of the annex to the legislation on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment provides for a derogation for cadmium for use in lighting or display systems, which expires on 1 july 2014, with the possibility of being extended if the progress of scientific and technical progress does not allow the substitution of this substance in electrical and electronic equipment by another product. the delegated directive adopted by the european commission extends the exemption provided for in point 39 until 30 june 2017, which, according to the assessments of experts and the progress of scientific and technical progress, is not justified, as significant developments have been observed regarding the availability of products using cadmium-free quantum box technology on the market. i therefore consider that such an exemption no longer applies and have voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. the european union has standards to limit the use of harmful substances in electrical and electronic equipment. however, exemptions may be granted where justified. this is the case for cadmium, which is used for lighting and for the illumination of television, tablet and computer screens. by means of a delegated act, the commission extended the exemptions for cadmium. however, it did not have sufficient information to support this extension. that is why i voted for this resolution, which calls on the commission to carry out a new evaluation.
in writing. ‒ a number of scientific studies have shown that cadmium, a heavy metal used in the screens of some lcd tvs and other electronic devices, poses high risks to human health. however, a range of new models of tv sets using cadmium-free quantum boxes are now available on the union market from leading retailers in the member states. the european parliament has therefore refused to extend the derogation which cadmium has hitherto enjoyed in lighting and illumination applications, as there was no other solution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on an exemption for cadmium in general lighting and display lighting applications. cadmium is a risk to both the environment and health. that is why in may 2015 i sent a written question to the european commission asking about its intentions. there are already other solutions that are much safer and more environmentally friendly. this means that we do not have to wait until 2017 to ban cadmium from the above elements, as envisaged in the commission delegated act. we must encourage the scientists and companies who have developed these new technologies and who consider cadmium to be a risk that cannot be taken any longer.
in writing. ‒ cadmium is a heavy metal, dangerous to health and the environment; it's banned in many applications. however, the european commission has granted an exemption for television screens, including led screens, and for lighting. this exemption shall apply until 30 june 2017. however, technology has, as is often the case, anticipated legislation and there are now "quantum boxes", semiconductor nanostructures, available on the market which can be cadmium-free. the new technology is being offered by two companies, samsung in korea and nanoco in the uk. the cadmium quantum boxes are made by three american companies. cadmium is a matter of concern and the office of my colleague mireille d'ornano has in fact asked the commission about the possibility of a ban. the resolution therefore objects to a delegated act to take account of technical progress and to the commission incorporating parliament's position on the subject. this motion for a resolution therefore calls for the rejection of a delegated act. it calls for the opinion of elected officials to be taken into account and aims to ban a dangerous product. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has granted an exemption from the ban on cadmium for television screens and for lighting. cadmium is a heavy metal and is particularly harmful to public health and the environment. some companies, however, have anticipated the legislation by creating quantum boxes, semiconductor nanostructures, and cadmium-free ones. these cadmium-free quantum boxes have been put on the market by three american companies. cadmium is a particular concern of the national front members of parliament and we are trying to get it banned by all means. the resolution presented here provides that the exemption takes account of technical progress, which makes it possible to get rid of the use of cadmium and thus to ban it in all areas. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution objecting to the commission's proposal to maintain cadmium in certain electronic and lighting products. despite its harmfulness, cadmium was exempted from use in certain european electronic and lighting products. the commission wished to maintain this exemption while new cadmium-free manufacturing processes are possible. the exemption therefore expires and should be withdrawn. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the delegated directive amending the provisions on an exemption for cadmium in general lighting and display lighting applications.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to amend annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council on an exemption for cadmium in general lighting and display lighting applications. it requires, in particular, an update in line with the technologies known in the eu and therefore rejects the delegated act. in addition, the reason given by the commission for renewing the exemption, namely that quantum boxes without cadmium do not yet exist, seems to me to be completely illegitimate and ineffective. i therefore voted in favour of this point.
in writing. - i voted yes. the resolution aims to ban cadmium, a heavy metal which is hazardous to health and the environment. there is an exemption valid until 30 june 2017 for tv screens and for lighting. cadmium is an important subject on which it is indeed useful to legislate, especially as technology allows the manufacture of cadmium-free devices. this resolution takes this possibility into account and wants to object to a delegated act so that the exemption is no longer possible, since it calls for the delegated act to be rejected with the expected consequence of the prohibition of a dangerous product; i support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the prohibition of cadmium. this heavy metal is hazardous to health and the environment and is banned in most products except for a few tv screens, especially led screens, and for lighting. another solution to this metal is currently on the market. this motion for a resolution calls for the rejection of a delegated act, calls for the opinion of the elected representatives to be taken into account on this matter and aims, in the long run, to ban this dangerous product, so i am in favour.
in writing. ‒ in 2011, the eu adopted a directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, mainly cadmium. however, a derogation was provided until 2014 for 'cadmium in light emitting diodes (leds) for use in solid state lighting or display systems'. the commission has extended this exemption to 2017 by means of a delegated act, considering that technological progress does not allow to do without cadmium: 'there are no cadmium-free quantum boxes yet'. this claim is unfounded, for example there are "range of new television models using cadmium-free quantum boxes". the resolution opposes the entry into force of the delegated act which serves the environmentally unconcerned industrialists. i vote for it.
in writing. this proposal aims to amend annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council on an exemption for cadmium in general lighting and display lighting applications. it requires, in particular, an update in line with the technologies known in the eu and therefore rejects the delegated act. in addition, the reason given by the commission for renewing the exemption, namely that quantum boxes without cadmium do not yet exist, seems to me to be completely illegitimate and ineffective. i therefore voted in favour of that point.
in writing. this resolution, which concerns an exemption for cadmium in general screen lighting, calls on the commission to present a new delegated act taking into account parliament's position. in fact, in a 2011 directive restricting hazardous substances, an exemption was made for the use of cadmium in the colored lighting of screens. the exemption expired by 1 july 2014 and the commission proposed a delegated act extending it until june 2018, while the majority of manufacturers had already removed cadmium from televisions, rendering the extension unfounded. i supported that resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, tabled by the greens/s&d/eug, deals with the ban on cadmium, a heavy metal which is dangerous to health and the environment. there is an exemption from this ban for television screens, including led screens, and for lighting. the exemption is valid until 30 june 2017. however, technology has, as is often the case, anticipated legislation and there are now "quantum boxes", nanostructures of semiconductors available on the market which can be cadmium-free. the new technology is being offered by two companies, samsung in korea and nanoco in the uk. the cadmium quantum boxes are the work of three american companies. the resolution therefore objects to a delegated act to take account of technical progress and to the commission incorporating parliament's position on the subject. i am voting in favour of the proposal because it calls for the rejection of a delegated act, calls for the opinion of the elected representatives to be taken into account and seeks to ban a dangerous product.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of the objection concerning the commission's eu delegated directive amending, for the purpose of adapting it to technical progress, annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards an exemption for cadmium in general lighting and screen lighting applications. i voted for this text and i would stress that the original delegated act needs certain amendments and improvements to be fully implemented and applicable.
in writing. ‒ in january 2015, the european commission proposed to the european parliament and the council to maintain the exemption for the use of cadmium in televisions until june 2018. cadmium is a hazardous metal found in various electrical and electronic equipment, including television screens for lighting applications. the toxicity of this metal is known and manufacturers are phasing out equipment containing this alloy. the exemption for its use was due to expire in 2014, but the commission requested the extension of that exemption on the grounds that there are no substitutes for this substance. however, according to information from the industry, there are at least two companies offering cadmium-free products. moreover, this request was submitted late, five months after the end of the exemption, and without any justification. the resolution, proposed by the gue/ngl, the greens and the socialist group, asks the commission to explain itself and to withdraw its proposal.
in writing. ‒ in the name of simplification, and in view of the negligible share of ethanol production in europe, the commission plans to remove ethyl alcohol from the list of products subject to the obligation to present an import certificate and to cease producing annual reports of ethyl alcohol within the union. on the contrary, i consider it essential to keep the ethyl alcohol market under surveillance, and for this to happen, transparency and knowledge of the market are necessary for both the players and the member states. the european sector, which is mainly fed by the cereals and wine sectors, is highly competitive with brazilian ethanol (often from sugar cane), due in particular to trade agreements concluded by the european union. in addition, the product concerned has been circumvented on several occasions. however, keeping a balance sheet makes it possible to detect such commercial abuses. i would add that these would be extremely useful for the whole of the current trade negotiations. finally, this simplification act on ethyl alcohol should not set a precedent for other products which are also exposed to international competition. for all these reasons, i am opposed to the delegated act proposed by the commission.
in writing. ‒ this item calls for the vote on the amendment to regulation (ec) no 376/2008 concerning the obligation to present a certificate for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003. the report states that the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin ensures transparency and the dissemination of information on the development of the market, which is unstable. this information is useful in international negotiations, especially since eurostat does not provide such precise information. parliament's resolution asks us to object to the commission's delegated regulation and i therefore voted in favour of that resolution.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution follows on from a proposal by the commission to amend the regulation on imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. the commission requested in particular that the import licence be withdrawn, although it guaranteed a certain degree of transparency in the monitoring of data. the aim of the motion for a resolution is to reject this deletion in order to combat the free trade deviations of the brussels commission. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to support this resolution which is in line with the will and interests of our farmers, while preserving biodiversity. the resolution provides for the maintenance of the import licence for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin; this certificate allows the product to be traced and provides a degree of transparency that is conducive to consumer protection and the protection of our agri-food industry. despite the proposal put forward by some members of the european parliament's committee on agriculture, i therefore welcome the work of mr michel dantin, mr eric andrieu, mr josé bové and mr martin haüsling, who, taking account of the opinion of the professionals in the sector, tabled this resolution to maintain the certificate. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ this delegated act aims to remove market balances for ethyl alcohol imported into the union and the requirement for licences for third countries wishing to import products into the union. i personally called for this delegated act to be rejected because it would be a mistake not to have comprehensive and accurate data on the import of this very fragile product, especially in the context of trade negotiations with our international partners. i also believe that the abolition of licences is creating a disequilibrium between our european companies and their foreign competitors. i support the european commission's overall approach to simplification, but simplification does not mean suppression, and in this case suppression does not seem to me to be relevant. for these reasons, i voted against the delegated act.
in writing. in this resolution, parliament objected to a commission delegated act concerning import licences for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. the deletion of such certificates is not desirable. this is one of the means by which we can obtain precise data on the ethanol market, which is very competitive. the monitoring of this market is useful for our trade policy. furthermore, while the use of ethanol reduces carbon dioxide emissions, its production requires agricultural resources that can be used for livestock and human food. this is another reason to be vigilant about the ethanol market.
in writing. ‒ it is important to maintain rules on the monitoring of ethyl alcohol data. these provide information to the stakeholders, i.e. the professional sector and institutional actors, on developments in a highly volatile market subject to strong competition from third countries. this information is also very useful for gathering evidence in anti-dumping proceedings. that is why the european parliament has chosen to maintain this obligation of transparency and information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting this delegated act which aims to abolish the market balances for ethyl alcohol imported into the union and the licence requirement for third countries wishing to export ethyl alcohol to the union. it is important for this sensitive market to have accurate import data, particularly in the context of international trade agreements being negotiated. import licences are also part of the negotiations which it is not wise to anticipate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it can limit imports of low-quality products at low prices, which unfairly compete with french and european producers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleague michel dantin on the import of ethyl alcohol into the union. the resolution opposes the commission's proposal to abolish import licences for alcohol and the requirement for third countries to import products into the union. the lack of data following the removal of balance sheets would put the union in a difficult position in future trade negotiations and the removal of licences would favour importing countries without any counterpart for the eu. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the commission's delegated act on the import of ethyl alcohol into the european union. that delegated act calls for, inter alia, the abolition of the licence requirement for third countries wishing to export products to the union, which would undermine the transparency of the union's trade relations with those countries.
in writing. ‒ this topic aims to amend regulation (ec) no 376/2008 on the requirement to present an import certificate for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not distorted by the use of nuclear energy, and calls on the commission to take all necessary measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not distorted by the use of nuclear energy. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted yes. the commission wants to abolish the requirement to present an import licence for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. i have intervened in the committee on agriculture to reject this proposal, which goes against the opinion of the professionals in the sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the proposal is to refuse the amendment of the rules of procedure. that is what i asked the committee to do.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the motion for a resolution is to oppose the decision to abolish the import licence for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. this certificate allows transparency on data monitoring and to give it up means playing the game of pro-free-trade eurocrats. we reject this approach and we reject the withdrawal of this certificate. we therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ a 2003 regulation lays down the measures relating to the market for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. the commission has proposed a delegated regulation to remove certain obligations. the delegated act thus removes the obligation for the union to establish and publish a union stock-taking of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and the obligation for member states to provide information on production, flow and stocks. however, the monitoring of data on ethyl alcohol ensures transparency and the dissemination of information on the evolution of the market, which is subject to strong competition due to imports from third countries. this information is extremely useful in the context of anti-dumping investigations, for example. the act also removes the requirement to present an import certificate, even though the eu imports more than one billion litres of ethyl alcohol a year. the resolution opposes this delegated act. i vote for the resolution.
in writing. this topic aims to amend regulation (ec) no 376/2008 on the requirement to present an import licence for ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin and repealing regulation (ec) no 2336/2003. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not distorted by the use of nuclear energy, and calls on the commission to take all necessary measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not distorted by the use of nuclear energy. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ at the last meeting of the committee on agriculture and rural development, a change to the regulation on imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin was proposed. it has been requested that the import certificate be deleted, although it allows for some transparency on the monitoring of data. i note that the industry is hostile to this amendment and that my colleagues have come forward to oppose this project. the resolution before us is designed to reject the decision to withdraw this certificate. the aim is to reject the commission's increasingly liberal and free-trade policy and to combat dumping by certain third countries which risks permanently weakening the eu's internal market and in particular that of france. that is why i am in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday, the european parliament rejected the commission's proposal for a delegated regulation amending the regulation on the obligation to present a certificate for imports of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. the aim of the text was to abolish the market balances for ethyl alcohol imported into the union and the requirement for licences for third countries wishing to import products into the union. i voted against this text because i believe that the two previous points are important and should be maintained.
in writing. ‒ a few months ago, the commission sent the european parliament a delegated act which should make it possible to remove the requirement to present a certificate for the import of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin into the union. the text also proposes to abolish the quarterly obligation for member states to provide information on production, disposal and stocks of alcohol and to publish balance sheets. this is a huge step backwards in terms of traceability, transparency and guarantee of the origin of consumer products such as ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin. the availability and updating of statistics on this subject is also essential in order to have all the information necessary to be able to conduct and adjust policies in this field. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution of parliament which opposes this delegated act and blocks its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on maternity leave because it is important to adopt real legislation in this area in order to achieve european harmonisation. in 2010, the european parliament voted to extend maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks and to introduce two weeks of fully paid paternity leave. the aim is to reconcile work and private life by increasing the participation of women in the labour market and supporting the birth rate. i voted for this resolution because we must take a stand and send a message to the council to resume negotiations on this subject.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the maternity directive, which is currently blocked due to lack of agreement between member states. the aim of the text is to improve the protection of pregnant women and young women who have given birth by proposing a more uniform and longer maternity leave, increasing it to 18 weeks (from the current 14 weeks) as recommended by the ilo. in addition, he will be offered at least 10 days paternity leave. this proposal is a step in the right direction, because it allows for gender equality and thus promotes women's work, contrary to the ideas conveyed by some liberals (see for example sweden). the text thus provides for a balance between men and women in private and family life and promotes better protection for pregnant workers. it is vital for health and safety reasons for both the mother and the unborn child. finally, this encouragement of motherhood is obviously a natalist argument, fighting against the ageing of europe and avoiding the idea of immigration necessary to revive births in europe. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the present motion for a resolution concerns the maternity directive, which is currently blocked due to lack of agreement between the member states. the aim is to improve the protection of pregnant women and young mothers after the birth of a child by harmonizing the rules on maternity leave. in this respect, it should be stressed that there is no correlation between the length of maternity leave and the employment rate of women. the member states of northern europe have the longest leave periods and the highest employment rates for women. i am in favour of all the policies that support fertility in france and in europe, and i voted for the text. indeed, the best weapon against mass immigration remains a high birth rate among women in france and europe.
in writing. ‒ the right to maternity leave must exist and be respected in all member states of the european union. i do not question that right in any way. however, i do not think it is the european union's responsibility to legislate on this matter. we have an important principle in the treaties, namely subsidiarity. it must be respected. family policy is a matter for the member states. each country has both cultural and social specificities which must be taken into account. in this particular case, it is the national level which is best placed to legislate on maternity leave. i am therefore in favour of the right to maternity leave but also in favour of respect for the principle of subsidiarity in this area. i therefore abstained on that resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which is intended to be a family support initiative and is part of a favourable birth rate policy. the laudable objective of this resolution is the protection of pregnant women and young mothers, who today unfortunately too often find themselves in a situation of great precariousness because of having given birth. the resolution proposes more uniform maternity leave guarantees in the eu member states, as well as the possibility of a paternity leave of at least ten days, which will allow fathers to help mothers in this period of great upheaval following the birth of a child. maternity leave therefore goes beyond the purely liberal view of women as a productive capital, allowing them to have a family life while ensuring the possibility of returning to work, which reminds us that women should never be punished for choosing to give birth; the resolution also stresses that the creation of a family is not incompatible with having a job, as countries such as sweden have the longest maternity leave and the highest female employment rate in europe.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims to discuss the state of play of the negotiations on the proposal for harmonisation of maternity leave proposed in 2008 which aimed to extend the mandatory maternity leave in europe from 14 to 18 weeks. the text was adopted by the european parliament in 2010 but has been blocked in the council of ministers since then. this resolution criticises the european commission's potential decision to withdraw the proposal in application of its institutional prerogatives. the commission has also taken the view that the proposed amendments to the regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation should be incorporated into the treaty on european union. on the contrary, considering that the substance of this resolution, given the state of negotiations being stalled and the absence of real progress in the negotiations, makes it necessary to break the institutional impasse and for the european commission to withdraw the text, even if it were to propose a new copy in its 2016 work programme, i abstained in voting on this resolution.
in writing. i have always been very active in defending women's rights. maternity leave is thus a tool which enables women to strike a good balance between their private and professional lives. it is therefore crucial that the european union put an end to the current deadlock on this measure. i am also in favour of the introduction of paternity leave, which already exists in france. i did not, however, wish to vote in favour of the paragraph calling for its introduction, because that resolution was only intended to deal with the resumption of discussions on maternity leave. the legislative procedures must be respected and no further debate must be brought into a resolution with a clear and specific objective. the vote on this paragraph in plenary led me to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the extension of maternity leave has been blocked in the council for almost four years. the commission, which in 2010 proposed to harmonise at least the duration of maternity leave and its remuneration in line with the recommendations of the international labour organisation (ilo), namely an 18-week leave, must not give in to the reluctance of the member states. this is a strong gesture for european parents, women and men, who will be helped to find a better balance between family and professional life. the commission must not leave this call unanswered.
in writing. - i abstained on the final vote on the resolution. i am afraid that the text as amended will not resolve the present impasse and will only reinforce the deadlock we have known for five years on the proposal for a directive on the improvement of the safety and health of pregnant, child-bearing and breastfeeding workers at work. this new maximalist position of parliament will only strengthen the european commission in its proposal to withdraw the original draft directive and take new initiatives in this area, under the refit programme, whereas there were good things such as a better sharing of parental responsibilities within the couple, an improvement in the employment rate of women and support for births.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the maternity leave regulation. it provides for better protection of pregnant women and the possibility of paternity leave. i have also ensured that these measures are beneficial to companies, so that they can organise themselves optimally by providing for replacements, which they are struggling to achieve today. however, we must pay particular attention to the beneficiaries of this birth policy. we must ensure that it benefits european citizens and not the people who move to our territories to benefit from our social policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the maternity leave directive, which is currently blocked due to lack of agreement between member states. the aim is to improve the protection of pregnant women and young women who have given birth by proposing a more uniform maternity leave in the eu countries, as well as a paternity leave of at least ten days. maternity leave is an organisational burden for the company. if it were longer, employers would be more aware of the need for replacement. these replacement posts could therefore be an opportunity for re-employment, especially for women returning from educational leave themselves. it should be noted that the northern european countries, such as sweden, have both the longest maternity leave and the highest female employment rate. this encouragement of motherhood is obviously a dimension of family policy, which avoids the usual discourse about an ageing europe justifying immigration. a national preference coupled with improved maternity leave conditions would therefore be ideal. i would also like to remind you that i asked the european commission about the lack of maternity leave in the united states, considering it an additional obstacle to the signing of the free trade agreement currently under negotiation.
in writing. while the sharing of family and domestic responsibilities remains largely unbalanced, to the detriment of women, and while only a quarter of member states offer paternity leave, our responsibility as european elected representatives is to support the implementation of a directive on maternity leave. in order to shake off the council's inertia, which has so far refused to take a position, i supported the adoption of a resolution to reiterate our desire to unblock this situation and to prevent this text from disappearing into the refit's dustbin. if the commission were to decide to withdraw this proposal, then we would ask it to bring forward a new piece of legislation. i believe that this text is essential, far beyond the cost issues, to improve the health and safety of pregnant, childbearing and breastfeeding workers at work, which would also help to address demographic challenges while reducing gender inequalities. too many women are at risk of poverty if they do not receive full protection during their maternity leave, and that is unacceptable. in the same way, by providing paternity leave at european level, we are defending the place that fathers should take in family life.
in writing. ‒ the maternity leave directive is currently blocked because the member states have not been able to reach a compromise. the aim of the resolution presented here is to improve the protection of pregnant women and young mothers by harmonising the duration of maternity leave in the union. the resolution also provides for paternity leave of at least ten days. in extending maternity leave, companies are obliged to provide for replacements. this initiative is ultimately a means of creating jobs in the union. these positions will also be an opportunity for women returning from maternity leave to find employment quickly. the scandinavian countries are exemplary here, as they have the longest maternity leave and the highest female employment rate. immigration is therefore not a necessity: women can work and have children. this resolution therefore advocates a voluntarist family policy. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on the motion for a resolution on maternity leave. the proposal to amend the current directive on this subject is not enough in my view to guarantee equality between men and women, only a new directive can bring about equality between the sexes in respect of maternity leave and harmonise european rights in this area.
in writing. ‒ i wished to abstain on the vote on the resolution on maternity leave, because the proposals it advocates do not give us any hope of breaking the current impasse. it is clear that for the last five years, because of the extreme and even extreme positions adopted by the european parliament at its first reading of the proposal for a directive, the council has been in a state of complete deadlock. the commission has not found the conditions for starting discussions on parliament's position within the council, and therefore, under the refit programme, the european commission is considering withdrawing the original draft directive, which has been completely blocked, and taking a new initiative. the proposal to introduce new legislation on parental leave or paternity leave in the resolution, as the left-wing parliamentary groups have requested, will not help us to overcome the political impasse. we need a thorough debate to assess how best to meet the challenge of improving the european framework for the protection of the health of mothers and pregnant women and their better integration into the labour market, and certainly not cake-walking statements without any tangible results to be expected.
in writing. ‒ currently, maternity leave is governed by a 1992 directive which provides for a minimum of 14 weeks, of which six weeks are compulsory with an allowance equal to full salary. the commission proposed a revision of the text in 2008 which raised the minimum to 18 weeks. in 2010, parliament voted to extend the leave to 20 weeks. but at government level, the file has been stuck since then, despite repeated calls from parliament to move the file forward on the basis of a minimum of 20 weeks of leave for mothers and two weeks for fathers. the new commission took office with the message that if parliament and the council did not reach an agreement by june, it would withdraw its proposal. that is why i am naturally voting in favour of this text, which rejects the commission's blackmail and calls on european governments to finally unblock this dossier, which would be a real step forward for many european women.
in writing. - i voted yes. the resolution deals with the maternity directive, which is blocked because of lack of agreement between the member states. the text proposes a more uniform maternity leave in the eu countries with the aim of improving the protection of pregnant women and young women who have given birth as soon as the child arrives. fathers are not forgotten, with a paternity leave of at least ten days being offered, a measure which is rather uncommon and should be encouraged. northern european countries such as sweden have both the longest maternity leave and the highest female employment rate in the european union. there is therefore no incompatibility between the two measures. the extension of parental leave is therefore not a handicap for the company and, on the contrary, makes it possible to better manage absences. moreover, this kind of maternity-friendly measure is part of a birth-friendly policy that the national front has always defended. it is time to put an end to the talk about the ageing population, which justifies the call for immigration, and to start implementing a policy to encourage more births.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. a maternity directive was under consideration but could never be reached because of lack of agreement between the member states, which is why we welcome this motion for a resolution. the aim is to improve the protection of pregnant women and young mothers by proposing more uniform parental leave across the member states. we believe that these measures, coupled with a national preference, would be a good thing for france.
in writing. ‒ in october 2008, the commission proposed to review the legislation on maternity leave. the commission initially proposed, on the basis of the ilo, 18 weeks of maternity leave (compared with the current 14 weeks). in 2010, parliament introduced a maternity leave of 20 weeks. the procedure has since been blocked by the council, which opposes the paternity leave also proposed and is concerned about the cost of this measure. in 2014, the commission extended the deadline for parliament and the council to reach an agreement by six months. the committee on gender equality calls on the council to take a stand and therefore 'to take responsibility for the refusal to improve the safety and health of pregnant, child-bearing and breastfeeding workers at work'. i am voting for this text and i denounce the hypocrisy of the french government in this matter. he claims to defend equal rights between men and women, the right to reconcile work and family life and the fight against wage inequality, and when he has the opportunity he finds it too expensive.
in writing. the purpose of this resolution is to make the protection of pregnant women and women who have recently given birth more effective, while the maternity directive is suspended due to persistent disagreements between states. it proposes to extend maternity leave to 18 weeks and thereby to standardise its practice (in line with the ilo recommendations) and to provide for paternity leave of at least 10 days. although it is in principle for the member states to decide on social reforms, this is an imperative reason of general interest aimed at ensuring gender equality, particularly in access to employment, since this measure is likely to increase the participation rate of women. this proposal therefore ensures a balance between private and family life in the interests of the child and could promote births in an ageing europe. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. i abstained on the final vote on the resolution on maternity leave because i am convinced that the only possible outcome for the harmonisation of maternity leave at european level will be the withdrawal of this directive and the preparation of a new proposal. to defend france's position, i supported the possibility of a paternity leave of 10 working days. i am also in favour of measures on equality between men and women, the sharing of parental responsibilities and reconciliation between work and private life; finally, i am against the gender pay and pension gap.
in writing. this resolution follows the commission's decision to withdraw its draft legislation on maternity leave in the eu, which would harmonise existing situations in europe and would be a step forward for women's rights, gender equality and better work-life balance. the resolution calls on the council to resume talks with parliament after four years of deadlock on the matter, strongly condemns the commission's proposal for withdrawing its draft directive, and instead calls on the council to play a conciliatory role between the two co-legislators. if the commission confirms its withdrawal, the resolution indicates that a new legislative proposal should be proposed in the near future. i voted in favour of this resolution, which also provides for the introduction of paternity leave and calls for measures to enable men and fathers to have the right to a good balance between work and family life.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the maternity directive, which is currently blocked due to lack of agreement between member states. the aim is to improve the protection of pregnant women and young women who have given birth by offering more uniform maternity leave in the eu countries, as well as paternity leave of at least 10 days (nearly a quarter of the countries do not offer paternity leave). while this resolution is based on good feeling, i nevertheless believe that birth policy must remain a prerogative of the member states and must not be harmonised by force. nor is it acceptable to ignore negotiations between sovereign states by means of such a resolution. that's why i'd rather not.
in writing. ‒ meps reiterated on wednesday their commitment not to withdraw the draft european directive on maternity leave. however, this text has been blocked in the council for four years. i abstained because i think it would be more effective and useful to give this directive a second life by encouraging the commission to make a new proposal.
in writing. ‒ long years of struggle have not yet led to real equality between women and men. whether it is unemployment, wages, job insecurity, women's social conditions are often more precarious, which further reduces the birth rate in the member states. the council has been blocking a draft directive for five years which would, among other things, extend maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is urgent to put an end to this situation. it meets several of my commitments: improving health and safety during pregnancy for women and children, enabling women to reconcile work and life, supporting the birth rate. ..this directive calls on the council of ministers to resume negotiations and to make its position known it is important to remember that despite the votes of the right-wing and far-right conservatives, the european parliament has on several occasions expressed itself in a majority in favour of raising awareness of the reality of women's condition and of increasing their rights. i'm not sure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the maternity leave directive, which is currently blocked because of lack of agreement between member states. the aim is to improve the protection of pregnant women and young women who have given birth by proposing a more uniform maternity leave in the eu countries, as well as a paternity leave of at least ten days. maternity leave is an organisational burden for the company. with a longer period of service, employers would be more aware of the need for replacement. these replacement posts could therefore be an opportunity for re-employment, especially for women returning from educational leave themselves. it should be noted that the northern european countries such as sweden have both the longest maternity leave and the highest female employment rate. this encouragement of motherhood is obviously a dimension of family policy, avoiding the usual discourse about an ageing europe justifying immigration. a national preference coupled with improved maternity leave conditions would therefore be ideal.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the council to resume talks with the european parliament on maternity leave. for four years the council has blocked any discussion and has therefore refused to make official not only its rejection of parliament's proposal but also the idea of any directive in this field. in the face of this institutional deadlock, the commission is threatening to withdraw the draft directive if the council and parliament do not quickly reach a compromise. the european parliament wanted to support a recommended maternity leave of 20 weeks, with full compensation. today, eleven member states of the european union have maternity leave of more than this length, but fourteen have only six weeks. france, on the other hand, allows 16 weeks, of which only two are compulsory before childbirth. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the council to work towards improving the living and working conditions of women in the european union. in voting for this resolution, i also voted in favour of the drafting of another directive on paternity leave, for greater equality of rights between women and men in order to really reconcile work and family life.
in writing. ‒ the european union currently has almost 80 million disabled people and it is clear that they have more difficulty than others in finding employment despite all the measures taken in the various member states. the resolution calls for the establishment of a list of statistics on disabled people to monitor their situation, calls on the three member states which have not yet done so to ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and encourages the adaptation of means of communication for disabled people, such as making websites accessible or ratifying the marrakesh treaty. while we generally agree with these measures which are aimed at giving disabled people more rights, i do not think it is the eu's job to propose that the states sign this convention, since the states must remain sovereign in the international agreements and conventions they sign. i therefore abstained on this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the present resolution, which is declarative in scope, calls for the issue of disability to be better addressed by the various institutions of the union. while this is a major issue and needs to be better integrated into public policies, it is first and foremost a matter for the sovereign competence of the member states. the fight against disability must not be used as a pretext for the european commission to intervene more in the public policies of each member state. that is why i abstained on the vote on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the list of issues adopted by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to the initial report of the european union. there are more than 80 million disabled people in the european union. they are far too often discriminated against and face considerable obstacles. it is our duty to make life easier for these people. the european parliament's resolution ensures that it will answer all questions from the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. parliament also called on the european commission and the member states to work towards improving respect for the rights of disabled people.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is part of the european commission's consultation process with the european parliament in the context of the work of the committee on the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd), which monitors the application of the convention by the european union. the text calls on the european commission to respond to all the questions raised by the committee. parliament also called on the member states which had not yet done so to ratify the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities as soon as possible. the resolution also recalls the work being done in parliament on the proposed eu anti-discrimination directive, which aims to protect disabled people from all forms of discrimination, and deplores the lack of progress in the council in this regard. considering that it is necessary for the european union and the member states to respect their international obligations and to make ambitious proposals to facilitate the accessibility and participation of disabled people in the life of the city, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. since all member states have signed and/or ratified the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the european union must have a clear policy on this matter. it is important that parliament should be involved in the monitoring of the european strategy for disabled people. it is the direct representative of 500 million european citizens, 80 million of whom are disabled. as a member of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i am particularly committed to guaranteeing the fundamental rights of all citizens, including people with disabilities. we must ensure that they have genuine equality of access to justice.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution expressing its support for the full implementation of the international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (icprd). the union must ensure that persons with disabilities can fully exercise their rights on an equal basis with other citizens. all european legislative instruments, policies and programmes must respect the provisions of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, within the limits of the principle of subsidiarity and the specific competences of the member states and the parties to the convention.
in writing. 80 million europeans are now disabled. all too often, in their daily lives, these citizens are denied the same rights, equal treatment, autonomy and full participation in social life as able-bodied people. in view of this situation, i voted in favour of a resolution addressed in particular to the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities, the commission and the council, in order to mark a new step in the progress to be made towards real equality of rights for all. this includes: the commission's proposal for an ambitious text on accessibility and full participation of people with disabilities throughout the legislative process; the swift adoption of the directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites; the increased deployment of means to develop access to employment for people with disabilities; easier access to justice; the use by states of european funds to strengthen services for people with disabilities; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat discrimination. europe must be able to meet these challenges, following the example of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the un committee on disabled persons has drawn up a list of questions on this subject which it will forward to the commission for its response. in this resolution, the european parliament puts itself at the disposal of the united nations committee on disabled persons to answer these questions as well. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. these are minimum standards and the union must go beyond these standards to better protect disabled people and to combat discrimination.
in writing. the front national meps abstained on the resolution on the list of issues adopted by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to the initial report of the european union. of course, as recital a of the text emphasises, disabled people, as full citizens, enjoy the same rights and can claim inalienable dignity, equal treatment, autonomy and full participation in social life. however, it is up to the member states to ensure that this principle is respected and put into practice. the text calls in particular on 'the commission to formally consult all the institutions and agencies concerned by the list of issues, namely the european parliament, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman and the european union agency for fundamental rights'. the involvement of all this machinery of the european union is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ this report establishes a dialogue between the european union and the united nations on the issue of people with disabilities. the report is a response to questions from the united nations committee on disability following a previous parliament report on the subject. this non-legislative text remains at the stage of good intentions and avoids certain issues such as access to employment and housing. moreover, he insists on speaking about disabled people, when in fact they are people with disabilities. it called on the member states which had not yet done so to ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities as soon as possible. the convention, adopted in 2006, aims to "promote, protect and ensure" the dignity, equality before the law, human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities of all kinds. i am voting for this text with no illusions about its effects.
in writing. this resolution on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities proposes the use of statistics to monitor the situation of people with disabilities in the member states, but also to ratify the marrakesh treaty and to make websites more accessible. the 80 million disabled people living in the union face many obstacles, particularly in accessing work or the means of communication, despite the various national legislations that are moving in the right direction. while i share the measures proposed in this motion for a resolution, i believe that it is up to the member states to sovereignly approve and ratify this un convention, and not the eu to propose its signature to the states. i therefore decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the united nations committee on the rights of persons with disabilities has adopted a list of questions on the initial report of the european union, to which the commission is to formally respond. the european parliament, as a democratically elected institution representing the european citizens, could not miss this opportunity to also answer the questions of the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. today, in europe, some 80 million people are disabled and more than half of them are unemployed. the european union legislation is not yet fully applied and its implementation would improve the daily life and accessibility of the professional world for disabled people! better cooperation between the european institutions is also needed to combat discrimination against disabled people.
in writing. ‒ in the context of defending the rights of persons with disabilities and promoting their inalienable dignity, equal treatment, autonomy and participation in social life, the european parliament voted in favour of the list of issues adopted by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities with regard to the eu's initial report. i have spoken in favour of this text and i insist that parliament should be consulted more on these matters. parliament's view is essential on these issues and helps to ensure that the union's fundamental values and principles are upheld.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the list of issues adopted by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to the eu's initial report. if the european commission is responsible for answering questions, it must not forget to take parliament's comments into account; the european parliament is the only body directly elected by european citizens. disabled persons shall enjoy the same rights and may claim inalienable dignity and equal treatment. we therefore urge member states to take appropriate steps by ratifying the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and by adopting as soon as possible a common position on the eu's anti-discrimination directive so that it can be implemented. it is essential that each institutional actor mobilises to support one of the most vulnerable groups in our society.
in writing. ‒ the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities entered into force in the european union on 21 january 2011. the european union has 80 million disabled people and many of them face discrimination and obstacles in the exercise of their rights. they are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society and their integration into the labour market is a major political challenge. there is no doubt that they must enjoy the same rights as everyone else living in the eu, but they must also be effective. all the necessary measures must therefore be taken in the areas of social protection, health care, adaptation and rehabilitation, education, access to goods and services, but also housing, transport and employment, so that they enjoy genuine equality of treatment, maximum autonomy and full participation in social life. this resolution is a good one, even if it is only symbolic. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the bacterium xyllela fastidiosa, which is responsible for the death of olive trees and can affect other plant species, is a real threat to the agricultural economy of the mediterranean areas. i welcome the fact that, following the protection measures taken by france, the union has followed suit. on 29 april, the commission adopted measures to destroy infected trees, to control and restrict the movement of plant material from the affected areas within its territory and to prohibit the importation into the union of plants from third countries from which the bacterium has appeared. but we would be wrong to stop there. this health issue again raises the problem of control of plants imported into europe. a year ago we had this debate on the protection of plants against imported pests. in view of the repeated failures of the current system of controls at the external borders of the union, i proposed that it be changed. i hadn't been heard. the resolution calls on the commission to review this plant health control system in order to better protect the union's territory. i will support this request and the call for support for the areas affected by xyllella fastidiosa.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the spread of xylella fastidiosa is one of the important texts that needs to be voted on, implemented and supported in order to ensure their effectiveness. the resolution stresses that the removal of the plant from the soil is an appropriate solution. targeted pesticides are still too much of a concern. a protectionist policy, limiting the import of products from xylella-affected areas, makes perfect sense here. the european union prefers to condemn member states which choose this path, accusing them of not respecting the rules of free trade. despite these reservations, i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the bacterium xylella fastidiosa was imported from central america and is currently destroying olive trees in the puglia region of italy. the danger is obviously the risk of the bacterium spreading to other european countries, but it is agreed that scientific control is difficult and that the preference is for grubbing up, which is not entirely satisfactory. to combat the disease, france has temporarily banned the import of plants from the infected regions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i voted for this text because it encourages control of these imports.
in writing. ‒ imported from central america, the xylella bacteria is currently destroying many olive groves in the puglia region of italy. the risk of spread is maximum and the solutions to combat this scourge are not without side effects. the most effective way of doing this is to restrict imports from the areas affected by the bacterium, but the european union has accused france of not respecting the rules of free movement of goods in the common market. that is why any motion for a resolution aimed at limiting imports and tightening controls must be supported in order to combat the spread of this bacterium. i voted for the text.
in writing. ‒ xylella fastidiosa is a bacterium that directly threatens the production of certain plants, particularly olive trees. the bacterium has already caused extensive damage in puglia, italy. in some areas, the spread of this bacterium has had considerable economic and social consequences. in this resolution we call on the commission and the member states to act as quickly as possible to stop the contamination of the plants and to compensate the producers concerned. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution which tackles the serious problem of the xylella bacteria, which is a considerable danger to olive groves, particularly in italy. this bacterium, imported from central america, is a real risk of spreading and destroying all olive trees on the european continent. the joint motion for a resolution proposes to limit imports in this area, which seems to be the most realistic and effective solution, since the grubbing-up solution has shown its limits and the use of pesticides raises many food safety and environmental issues. the positive attitude of the french authorities is noteworthy, who very quickly decided to ban the import of plants from the infected regions, a public health measure that can justify an exception to the free trade regime governing the european internal market.
in writing. ‒ this outbreak illustrates the major risks of an uncontrolled opening of our european borders to agricultural products and plants from abroad. the risk to plant and animal health is now clear. the solution lies firstly in strengthening product controls at the union's borders, this is a necessity. in addition, compensation procedures should be initiated for farmers affected by this outbreak. funding for research is also imperative. our scientists must find solutions very quickly to eradicate the bacteria and preserve the cultures that still exist. these various points are in the resolution, and i have therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. since 2013, the xylella fastidiosa bacterium has been wreaking havoc in the italian olive sector. the resolution calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of a plant health crisis in several sectors of european agriculture and horticulture. measures have already been taken to control the bacterium at local level in the puglia region, but a more global action plan is needed. the resolution calls for increased vigilance at customs when goods and travellers enter the union. the bacterium is transmitted by both the infected plants themselves and by insects. finally, i am glad that parliament is taking account of the threats to the livelihoods of the people in the affected areas by providing them with compensation.
in writing. ‒ the puglia region in southern italy has been suffering from an outbreak of xylella fastidiosa, a bacterium that affects olive trees, since 2013. already 10% of the olive groves in the province of lecce have been infected. carried by vector insects, this bacterium is already spreading to neighboring regions. a suspected case has even been reported near nice. the absence of treatment to treat the infected plants, the large number of species likely to be infected, and the likelihood of its spread in the european union, make this bacterium a very serious threat to agriculture. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to take targeted measures to prevent further damage, such as the removal and destruction of listed host plants (citrus, olive, vine, plum, almond, tobacco, rose laurel, oak, thorn etc.) within a radius of 100 metres of any plant affected by xylella fastidiosa. in parallel, aid will have to be granted to farmers to replenish stocks of olive trees and other tree crops affected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the european commission to combat the spread of xylella fastidiosa in europe with determination. a number of measures are needed, including the strengthening of measures to prevent and control the spread of this disease, the development of effective means of control, compensation for producers, and strict control of imports of plant products. the fight against xylella will illustrate the eu's determination to protect its territory and agriculture from the growing health risks due to increased trade and insufficient plant protection resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the spread of the xylella fastidiosa bacterium which infects olive trees. this is a plague that threatens olive groves around the mediterranean. it has spread widely across puglia and there are concerns about the corsica region in particular. it is appropriate to be responsible and careful in doing all we can to stop the bacteria. on the one hand, the olive tree epidemic is an environmental concern, particularly for france and italy. on the other hand, it is a significant economic risk for many oil producers. in order to limit the spread and eradicate the bacterium, imports should be controlled and imports from the affected areas prohibited. the optimal management of the flow of goods is the only viable and sensible solution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the first time that people have become aware of the need to combat this bacterium, which is causing serious damage to olive plantations, even if it does not go far enough in restricting imports.
in writing. xylella fastidiosa is a serious threat to the production of certain crops in southern europe, particularly olive trees. it is already causing significant damage in puglia, italy, and could have far-reaching economic, environmental and social consequences. no treatment is currently available to treat infected plants that remain infected throughout their life or wither rapidly. given the difficulty of containing the spread of xylella fastidiosa once it has infested a production area, it is necessary to give priority to import-oriented preventive measures. unfortunately, the commission is mainly focusing on internal measures to combat the epidemic, without taking into account the need to take measures to prevent the introduction of the disease into the european union from third countries. i therefore support this resolution which calls on the commission to take all necessary measures to limit the spread of the disease and on the member states to compensate producers for the eradication measures and the loss of income which would be associated with these measures.
in writing. ‒ the epidemic currently affecting olive trees in italy is a phenomenon little known to french citizens. but it is still dangerous, since it now threatens vineyards and 300,000 other plant species. given the risk this poses, there is an urgent need to respond by imposing drastic controls in european ports to limit contagion as much as possible. the problem with this epidemic, if it is not contained, is that it can spread to animal species and may even pose a risk to humans. to date, scientists have not been able to develop a means of eradicating the bacterium. only plant abatement measures have been able to limit the spread, but this solution has a strong impact on the activities of producers and operators. in view of this, we must establish strict controls on the import of plant products and make research as easy as possible. otherwise, the whole of european agriculture is in danger.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the spread of xylella fastidiosa is one of the important texts that needs to be voted on, implemented and supported in order to ensure their effectiveness. the resolution stresses that the removal of the plant from the soil is an appropriate solution. targeted pesticides are still too much of a concern. on the other hand, it is important to stress here that a protectionist policy, limiting the import of products from xylella-affected regions, makes perfect sense. the european union prefers to condemn member states which choose this path, accusing them of not respecting the rules of free trade. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on xylella. this bacterium, which is ravaging the olive trees of southern italy, and more specifically in the puglia region, must be stopped. parliament therefore calls on the commission to act as quickly as possible against this scourge for our agriculture and to do everything possible to prevent its spread to the rest of the european union. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 20 may, i voted in favour of new measures to prevent the spread of the xylella fastidiosa bacterium that infects olive trees. they provide in particular that member states will have to notify any occurrence of the bacterium and demarcate the affected area. if there is a new outbreak, they will have to destroy within a 100m radius all plants that could harbor the bacteria. i welcome the introduction of such european measures, the implementation of which will make it possible to improve the effectiveness of the fight against this olive-killing bacterium. funding for research is essential to enable our scientists to find rapid solutions to contamination and to preserve the crops that still exist. more than 300,000 plant species are threatened, including citrus and grape varieties. we must therefore act quickly and use all our resources at european level to contain the epidemic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling for a reinforcement of measures at eu level to combat the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa, a bacterium that affects olive trees in southern europe in particular. in this resolution, adopted by an overwhelming majority of meps, we called on the european commission and the member states to compensate producers for the measures they had to put in place to try to eradicate this bacterium and for the loss of income generated, including losses related to tourist activities. we also stressed the need for rapid action and the use of all available means at european level to contain the epidemic which is affecting mainly agricultural crops in southern europe, particularly in france. finally, the resolution calls on the european commission to promote intensified research, including increased international collaboration, including by making more funds available to research institutes, in order to improve our scientific knowledge of the bacterium xylella fastidiosa and thus to combat its devastating effects on plant and animal health more effectively.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution concerns the spread of xylella fastidiosa, which infects olive trees. it is a bacterium from central america that is now rampant in southern italy. the text increases import controls and allows, in particular, a temporary ban on imports of plant products from contaminated regions, in order to avoid contagion to other eu countries, given that it is currently very difficult to combat it. i therefore voted in favour of the measures envisaged in this text.
in writing. - i voted yes. the bacterium xylella fastidiosa is wreaking havoc on olive groves in the puglia region of italy. it's a bacterium that was imported from central america. in view of the serious economic situation in the puglia region caused by this bacterium, it is urgent to take decisions. it appears difficult to combat xylella fastidiosa in a scientific manner. the decision to uproot the infected plants was made with the use of pesticides, which is always a tricky matter. but it's imperative that we prevent the spread of the disease. the central point for this is to limit and increase imports. this motion for a resolution, although it does not leave enough room for action by the states, does have the merit of calling for the limitation of plant imports and increased controls on what enters the territory of the member states of the european union. that said, the commission should also consider the possibilities of supporting the genetic diversity of plants and animals, which could be a guarantee of safety against epidemics.
in writing. ‒ xylella fastidiosa is a bacterium accidentally imported from central america that is currently destroying olive trees in the puglia region of italy. there seems to be little that can be done to prevent the spread of the disease: uprooting is unacceptable and treatment with pesticides is quite frowned upon. the temporary solution adopted by france is to limit imports of products from infected areas. this motion for a resolution proposes, at european level, a limitation of imports and the establishment of a protection of the european territory, which we support. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ xylella fastidiosa arrived in europe from a large outbreak in california in 2013. now widespread in southern italy, it is an immediate and very dangerous threat to many crops in southern europe: olive trees, almond trees, peaches and plants. it also poses a potential threat to vineyards and citrus crops. to limit contamination the resolution proposes restrictions on imports from the areas where the bacteria are present. but it leaves it to the commission to draw up 'detailed guidelines for the implementation of disease prevention and control measures, clearly specifying their scope and duration, to which the competent authorities and services of the member states may refer'. the european commission is totally subject to pressure from the lobbies, particularly those for plant protection products, and its solution will surely be to use pesticides. on the contrary, it is a model of small-scale, small-scale, and multi-crop farming that will help to combat these bacteria by increasing plant resilience. i vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the spread of xylella fastidiosa is one of the important texts that needs to be voted on, implemented and supported in order to ensure their effectiveness. the resolution stresses that the removal of the plant from the soil is an appropriate solution. targeted pesticides are still too much of a concern. on the other hand, it is important to stress here that a protectionist policy, limiting the import of products from xylella-affected regions, makes perfect sense. the european union prefers to condemn member states which choose this path, accusing them of not respecting the rules of free trade. for all these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. this motion for a resolution concerns the spread of xylella fastidiosa, which infects olive trees. it is a bacterium from central america that is now rampant in southern italy. the text increases import controls and allows for a temporary ban on imports of plant products from contaminated areas, in order to avoid contagion to other eu countries, given that it is currently very difficult to combat it. i therefore voted in favour of the measures envisaged in this text.
in writing. xylella fastidiosa is a particularly dangerous bacterium that attacks olive trees and trees in general. it is highly contagious and there is currently no effective way to control it. the joint resolution calls on the commission to take strong action against the epidemic to limit its spread in the eu, such as stopping the import of trees from the affected regions. parliament called for compensation for the farmers affected and proposed additional funding for the affected areas to enable them to recover quickly. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the bacterium xylella fastidiosa was imported from central america and is currently destroying olive trees in the puglia region of italy. there is, of course, a risk of contagion. action must be taken at european level. the scientific solution to the problem of the disease is difficult; the solution has been to eradicate it, which does not seem to be the most satisfactory. the use of targeted pesticides is more effective but raises concerns about their effects. the french government has preemptively decided to ban the import of plants from the infected regions, which has also provoked criticism, with france being accused of not respecting the rules of free trade. any proposal to restrict imports and to protect the european territory and to strengthen controls should therefore be supported. since the resolution proposes such measures, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ since 2013, the bacterium xylella fastidiosa has devastated olive trees in southern italy and threatens to spread to the mediterranean area. this bacterium is a major risk to the european territory. it is therefore essential to implement emergency measures at european level to stem this phenomenon. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. i voted in favour of this text and i would stress the urgency of the situation. but we need to go further. i would particularly stress the need to strengthen prevention and decontamination measures and to amend the regulation on plant diseases in order to strengthen border controls on imported products.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the spread of xylella fastidiosa. this bacterium is a serious threat to the production of certain crops in southern europe, such as olive trees, almond trees, but also vines and citrus fruits. this phenomenon has serious environmental, social and economic consequences, with losses in agricultural production and in activities related to heritage or culture. we must take effective measures to prevent the spread of this bacterium and also to help the producers. the most vulnerable crops must be targeted, producers must be compensated, available funds must be used to help the economic recovery of the affected areas and preventive measures must be implemented. while the spread is difficult to contain once a region is infested, prevention and awareness-raising are essential in areas of the eu likely to be affected. we would like to be kept informed by the european commission of any developments in the situation in order to remain alert to the dangers of xylella fastidiosa.
in writing. ‒ the xylella bacterium is responsible for the current epidemic, which is particularly affecting olive trees in southern europe. in order to combat this epidemic, it is necessary to strengthen product controls at the union's borders, because otherwise we risk having to cut down the contaminated plants and endanger european farmers. in parallel with these actions, there is a need to increase research funding in order to find solutions as soon as possible to eradicate the bacterium and preserve the existing crops. more than 300 000 plant species are currently threatened, hence the urgency and need to act quickly; i have therefore supported this resolution.
‒ xylella fastidiosa is a bacterium that is threatening agricultural production in europe. it has recently entered italy, and it is endangering more than 150 plant species. the consequences are already dramatic in puglia, where millions of olive trees have been uprooted, with no guarantee that the epidemic will be avoided. in view of this danger, we have formed a majority of members to instruct the commission to take the necessary measures to stop the spread of the bacterium. the current system of controls on imported plants, which is very weak, will be revised to prevent the spread of diseases. this should be reflected in the issuing of plant passports, for example. i am, however, disappointed and concerned that some of the more stringent regulations, such as the quarantine of products which may have been infected with xyllela fastidiosa, have not convinced a majority of members. finally, i hope that the european commission will respond quickly to our request for funds to be mobilised to help the areas affected by this bacterium.
in writing. ‒ olive growing is an integral part of mediterranean culture and agriculture. the olive tree is part of the heritage, history and, of course, the economy of the whole mediterranean area, especially in the south of france and corsica. the spread of the bacterium xylella fastidiosa is a danger for the whole of europe. the european union can help coordinate the fight against this threat, but the measures taken to "strictly eradicate the infected areas" lead to the destruction of many host plants: not only olive trees but also citrus, vines, plums, almond, tobacco, rose laurels, oaks, thorns... within a radius of 100 metres of the infected plant. in addition, the excessive and unreasonable use of pesticides is a danger to biodiversity, human and animal health. each proposed solution should be subject to a short- and long-term cost-benefit analysis. monitoring and containment measures and appropriate farming practices are better suited to preserve and protect territories and biodiversity and thus to provide a sustainable environmental response. i therefore voted against this resolution.
madam president, i had planned a somewhat more conventional speech, but i would like to answer mrs keller and mr ali tonight. i would like to make a solemn denunciation of turkey's ambiguous role in the middle east and in europe. for ten years you have been trying to force turkey into europe on us in the european parliament! i say no, no and no! i will oppose turkey's entry into europe because it does not represent the fundamental rules of the european union! it illegally occupies territory in cyprus and has not denounced the armenian genocide! and you insist on making us believe that turkey is now a democratic country! go see what's happening in gezi park, go see what's happening in the christian minorities! what you want is a turkish europe! i am denouncing the fact that turkey is imposing its choice of civilisation on europe. we must defend here today the civilization of a christian europe.
in writing. this proposal concerns the 2014 follow-up report on turkey and details the multiple developments in turkey in relation to its status as a candidate country for accession to the european union. even if this report contains criticisms of turkey and the erdoğan administration, particularly on respect for fundamental rights, freedom of expression, human rights or justice, we cannot deny that the eu and the report remain in favour of enlargement and the arrival of turkey within the union. i have already tabled a motion for a resolution to this effect against turkey's accession to the eu and the termination of the negotiations, especially since turkey still refuses to recognise the cypriot state. turkey, because of its history, its culture or its regime, cannot in principle join the eu. finally, the funding, already important for its pre-accession, risks becoming unsustainable if we have to allocate an effective share of the budget to turkey should it join the eu.
in writing. the commissioner responsible for european neighbourhood policy and enlargement negotiations has acknowledged that he wants to place turkey among the priority countries during this parliamentary term, and thus 14 of the 35 chapters have already been opened in the accession process. on 29 may 2005, however, the french voted against the draft european constitution in a referendum, in large part because they did not want turkey to join the european union. ten years later, under american pressure, eu leaders are still prepared to accept everything and to turn a blind eye to many areas of the shadow: the situation of minorities, freedom of expression, respect for fundamental rights, official recognition of the legal existence of the republic of cyprus, turkey's financial capacity... moreover, the european union is no longer functioning, as a result of its constant advocacy of enlargement. if there is to be further enlargement, then the peoples of europe should be consulted. that is the very foundation of democracy. there is no doubt that under these conditions turkey would not join the european union.
mr president, without prejudice to the sovereign choice of the ethiopian electorate, prime minister hailemariam desalegn will probably be re-elected in the general elections on sunday. i hope that the member states of the european union will support the ethiopian government, one of the few islands of stability and development in east africa. to date, the europeans are the great absentees from ethiopian development and let china act as master in ethiopia. in addition to increased development support through the establishment of european companies, more active cooperation, including military cooperation, should be pursued with ethiopia in its fight against radical islamism, both within and outside its borders. in return, ethiopia should be asked to be more effective in its fight against the emigration of its labour force, particularly via libya. this illegal migration puts migrants in mortal danger, who, in addition to the risk of shipwreck in the mediterranean, find themselves, as christians, under the threat of massacres committed by the so-called islamic state in syria.
mr president, ethiopia has become a major regional power and a true pole of stability in the horn of africa. with a growth rate of 10.5% for 2013, it reaps the fruits of a development model based on an economy led by a strong and structured state. in a continent of africa that has been ravaged by numerous civil wars and coup attempts, ethiopia is a model of political stability, given its great ethnic and religious diversity. the parliamentary elections that will take place this sunday are the first since the death in 2012 of the popular prime minister zenawi. they should not therefore be used as a pretext for any moral interference by the european union and western countries in the internal affairs of a government that is authoritarian, but has achieved spectacular results in reducing poverty. the emergence of unrest could create a cycle of destabilization whose outcome no one can predict. finally, i regret that the member states of the union pay limited attention to the economic potential of ethiopia, with whom we would benefit from strengthening our cooperation links with a view to fair economic exchanges.
madam president, madam representative of mrs mogherini, on the eve of the riga summit, it is necessary to take stock of the eastern partnership policy: none of the post-cold war promises has been kept. we could have created a zone of prosperity, the first step towards an independent europe, uniting east and west. instead, whenever a country has been a bridge between east and west, the union's policy has pitted people against each other, faced with the choice between belonging to the west and to nato, whether it be serbia, georgia or ukraine, to name the countries in conflict. we have certainly exceeded the 10,000 victims in ukraine. what's the score? there will be further confrontations as long as we continue to support a policy of bellicose nato enlargement against the interests of europe and europeans. we are at a favourable moment thanks to mr kerry and a realistic policy which the high representative also wants. so let us get out of the manichean way, let us not have two weights, two measures for a great united europe. that's what it means to be european today.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu-celac summit (10 and 11 june) (2015/2637 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended for a moment) written declarations (rule 162)
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the council on the youth employment initiative need for rapid implementation at member state level, by marita ulvskog, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o000051/2015 b80551/2015) (2015/2679(rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to say to our representative in the council tonight that the member states wanted this initiative for youth employment. it's their invention. they have made a good deal of publicity about the youth employment initiative. i must say that they have sometimes even confused the youth guarantee with the youth employment initiative. but this youth employment initiative is a genuine need of the citizens; you were talking about the importance of the number of young unemployed which calls for a very strong reaction. however, in the first year of operation of the youth employment initiative, there was a real weakness in the implementation in the member states. there are some good examples - you just mentioned them - but it's not the case everywhere. was it a lack of funding? we reacted immediately to the quarter turn. for once, the european union has reacted exceptionally quickly to this. and in three months, we've gone from 1 percent pre-funding to 3 percent. thank you to all the political groups who helped us to react. thank you to the council and thank you to the commission. but we will not let anything go because what we want is for this device to be used. i have seen many ministers who still confuse the youth guarantee with the youth employment initiative. i saw a lot of people who needed information, communication. we really want this initiative to be implemented, so help us and put pressure on the member states.
madam president, madam council representative, i have a very simple message to pass on. tell the ladies and gentlemen of the heads of state or government: "stop the blah blah. you have to be brave. you really have to be brave. make youth employment the priority in your political choices!" to date - and this is a shame - no jobs have been created thanks to the european youth initiative, according to the court of auditors. the delay in starting up, which was the fault of the member states, is no longer justifiable, since, as has been said, the envelope has been increased. of course, administrative arrangements need to be improved to actively support young people and protect them from poverty and exclusion, but we must build for the future. the heads of state or government must understand that we know the sectors of the future. what are they? renewable energy, insulation. we also know digital. that's where you really have to invest. why would you do that? because all these markets are solid, sustainable and non-relocatable markets. ladies and gentlemen, heads of state or government, you are no longer allowed to communicate. youth is no longer an adjustment variable.
madam president, the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs has done very well in asking her last question. what if the increase in prefinancing has no effect within 12 months? it is no doubt struck by the grace of lucidity because, the same causes producing the same effects, the inconsistent use of european funds, in this case the esf, will continue to strengthen youth unemployment instead of reducing it. more unemployment means more social charges, less jobs - a vicious circle that all member states are familiar with. it is therefore urgent to move beyond the words and jargon used for more than 30 years in this institution and to move towards action: let us ease the european constraints on states and businesses, especially smes and small businesses; let us free up the regulatory constraints on vocational training and employment; let us remove the brakes on entrepreneurship and energy. so stop the colossal sums of money being poured into bottomless, uncontrolled wells! see you in a year. unfortunately, unless you're surprised, the negative results are known in advance.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. parliament approved the decision to increase the pre-financing of the european social fund to support member states in their fight against youth unemployment. while this decision and the desire for rapid implementation are admirable, it does not solve the existing problems: the eu's budget deficit rules still prevent states from advancing funds, no impact analysis has been carried out and the overall cost of implementation is still unknown, the commission's monitoring of the scheme is still weak and there is still no guarantee that the promised funds will be released by the eu. the real weakness of the union is not a lack of pre-financing or speed, but the absence of a real employment policy, of support for the member states, the socioeconomic failure of european policies. the only solution, we can never say enough, is to protect our production from social dumping, to practice prudent protectionism at the level of each member state and to enable them to take the necessary measures to create jobs and to get out of the crisis. only then can we help the young people.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council statement on japanese whaling in the antarctic (2015/2702 ((rsp)).
madam president, japan is in breach of international law which has banned commercial whaling since 1986. it is continuing to hunt, claiming that it is a scientific hunt. his goal would be to study the age of whales to find out their reproductive rate. it's not credible, because you don't have to kill whales to study them, you can just observe them with satellite or underwater cameras. in fact, japan is laughing at us. he's a commercial fisherman. if he killed 11,000 whales between 1987 and 2013, it was to eat them. in fact, on march 31, 2014, the international court of justice ordered japan to stop whaling in the antarctic. japan has complied for a year, but it has just announced that it will kill 333 whales in the antarctic in 2015. it is urgent to put pressure on japan to comply with international law. whales must be protected, for they are, as cuban writer enrique serpa says, the embodiment of strength in the protean world of the sea.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest forecasts for economic growth and inflation in the european union appear to be converging. in april, the zone reportedly emerged from price deflation with zero inflation for a year, after four months of negative inflation. so, officially, everything's going for the best in the best of all worlds. of course, these figures hide a very different reality. firstly, these results are the result of a flood of financial means put in place to revive economic growth, whether through national budgets, the ecb's quantitative easing programmes or mr juncker's mythical plans. big money, small effect. secondly, this statistical swallow does not make the economic spring: + 0.4% in the union, + 0.6% for france in the first quarter of 2015, when the united kingdom was 2.80% in 2014. finally, i should like to remind you that this increase is also the consequence of a new method of calculating gdp imposed at union level, of which the national front is the only one to speak. criminal activities such as prostitution, drug trafficking and smuggling have been gradually integrated into a new method of calculating gdp, resulting in an artificial increase in economic growth. unfortunately, households are not experiencing the recovery that is being touted, either in employment or in the order books of smes. the accounting illusion and the communication plan of the governments and brussels cannot hide the reality. there is no real recovery and we are still in a structural recession.
madam president, commissioner, i am very much afraid that with your forecasts we are being invited to dance on the edge of a cliff. the growth you speak of is the result of a combination of lower oil prices, changes in the value of the euro, the continuous flow of liquidity from the central bank into the flames of private bank speculation and internal and external economic wars, without creating stable jobs, without reducing inequality and insecurity. we cannot build a modern europe, a strong economy or sustainable development with austerity and social breakdown everywhere. why, moreover, do you not mention the work of economists at the central bank, who estimate that the unemployment rate will remain in double digits, including in 2017? the growth you're talking about is the growth of the capital market against labor and the environment, which can prepare for another financial crash. to avoid this, we must abandon austerity and invest heavily in training and education, skilled employment, innovation and research, and in the development of services that contribute to human and ecological development. we must also remove the straitjacket that has encircled the greek people. the general interest and the interest of european integration require change.
in writing. the projected growth rate for 2015 is 1.5% compared to 0.9% in 2014. this mechanical increase is the result of the improvement in external factors such as the fall in the price of oil, the fall in the euro and the massive liquidity injection by the european central bank (ecb). moreover, ecb economists say that despite the recovery, the unemployment rate will remain in double digits by 2017. there is therefore no reason to rejoice, because this growth is only a temporary boost which will not be confirmed in the coming years. the economic policy pursued by the brussels commissioners must therefore be reviewed from the outset and the freedom of the member states restored. finally, i take this opportunity to denounce the scandalous inclusion of certain criminal activities such as prostitution in the calculation of gdp. no one is fooled by this attempt at diversion which serves only to justify the ultra-austerity policies pursued by the european commission.
member of the commission.– madam president, i wish to thank everyone for their interest and contributions to this discussion. the commission takes good note of the elements and arguments put forward during these interesting debates. i will convey the substance and climate of the current discussion to my dear colleague arias cañete, who is responsible for energy. i am sure he will take into account all proposals ahead of the next steps.
author. madam president, itai dzamara is a young journalist, human rights activist, pacifist of the occupy africa unity square movement, and a sit-in organiser who has been calling since 2014 for the resignation of 91-year-old robert mugabe, who has been in power since the country's independence in 1980. two days before his disappearance, mr. dzamara participated in one of these peaceful demonstrations denouncing the economic and social situation in the country, and not without reason: unemployment approaching 80%, poverty exceeding 70%, hyperinflation that has ruined the country, chronic hunger, not to mention the ebola virus and sexual violence suffered by two thirds of women. in late 2014, as the crackdown was being re-initiated, the european union lifted sanctions against zimbabwe. i find it difficult to understand why, and why she has maintained these almost exclusively in respect of robert mugabe and his wife. there is no shortage of oligarchs close to power in the country. there is concern that the 234 million in development aid is benefiting them rather than the zimbabwean population. so, yes, we must do everything we can to find out what happened to itai dzamara, to protect his wife and his political friends. does resuming dialogue with that country at least serve any purpose in this context? that is the specific question i am asking you, commissioner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the political and economic situation in zimbabwe is indeed very worrying, and we are entitled to demand an explanation for the disappearance of mr itai dzamara, which has now been going on for more than two months. this opponent of mugabe's dictatorial regime has been denouncing the catastrophic situation in his country. but how did we get here? before famine, poverty, aids, arbitrary land expropriation, and the racist murder of white farmers, zimbabwe was known as southern rhodesia. this former british colony was one of the most prosperous countries in black africa and was its wheat-growing barn. it is generally believed that it was the "agrarian reform" in particular that plunged the country into misery and chaos. this "reform" consisted in the ruthless expropriation, without compensation, of thousands of white farmers whom the country's authorities blamed for all the ills. if i am generally opposed to the right of interference, which the european union continues to abuse, how can i remain indifferent to this terrible ethnic cleansing? so, yes, let's demand answers about mr dzamara's disappearance but let's stop turning a blind eye to the state racism promoted by an old marxist dictator who dreams of becoming the monomotapa emperor.
author. mr president, the mass graves that have been opened in thailand in recent weeks have revealed to the world the plight of migrants in that country, interned in appalling conditions, dying of hunger, exhaustion or disease, when families cannot pay their ransom. the crackdown on trafficking has forced thousands of these unfortunates to take to the sea. on board were men, women, and children, mostly bangladeshis, and especially rohingya fleeing persecution in burma. they're rejected from all sides. unhcr says 25,000 people have fled since january, the largest influx to the region since the vietnam war. nearly 3,000 migrants have reached the coasts of malaysia, indonesia and thailand in recent days, and nearly 8,000 are believed to be lost at sea, seeking refuge. there, as here, the national authorities are evading their responsibilities. since 2013, the european union has spent only 325,000 euros on the rohingya refugee camp in thailand, a paltry sum. the union must do everything in its power to ensure that the rohingya, the damned of the earth, are no longer persecuted in their country, burma. so that they can no longer be prey to predators and can be welcomed in good conditions where they seek refuge.
in writing. ‒ this report begins by denying the sovereignty of the member states in matters of foreign policy, since it aims to make it impossible for any state to oppose the union's foreign policy. the rapporteur, arnaud danjean, wants to force all the member states into a community foreign policy, advocating common external interventions in which no state can refuse to participate. the idea behind this report is the necessary abandonment of national defence capabilities since most states are no longer able to maintain their own armed forces. the solution would therefore be to establish a single european defence, which i oppose, so that france can retain its sovereignty and its defence. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because i am in favour of greater coherence between external and internal policy instruments and of greater cooperation and coordination between member states, particularly in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, as well as in the areas of cybersecurity and immigration. this is the first step towards a european army...
in writing. ‒ the danjean report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy is profoundly contrary not only to my convictions but also to the self-interest of each member state of the european union. firstly, the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) is an old europeanist whim that has repeatedly failed. i would remind you that france had already rejected the disastrous european defence community (edc) in 1954, which had basically the same objectives as the cfsp. the european union has therefore not yet understood in 60 years that our citizens do not want the mutual defence of the member states. moreover, such a policy would be ineffective and even dangerous, since the member states do not have the same interests in defence and foreign policy. the links between the cfsp and nato, from which i would like france to withdraw, are another reason why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy merely reproduces the annual report which the council sent to the european parliament. the report uses ambiguous semantics in order to strive for uniformity in the foreign policy positions of the member states. the report also seeks to take advantage of austerity policies in the management of defence budgets to encourage the pooling of military resources at european level. the aim is to create a european military projection force under the authority of the commission. finally, the report clearly states the convergence of european defence objectives with those of nato. because the external security policy depends on the vital objectives of each member state, the european union is not the appropriate level to conduct an effective fight against the new threats that lurk on the european continent. that is why i voted against this text which calls for the stripping of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy highlights the need to adapt the european security and defence policy to current challenges. cyber defence, increased defence budget, the fight against terrorism and conflict resolution in the eu's neighbourhood are elements that need to be put in place. the international context requires rapid, effective and coordinated action by the member states. it is not isolated interventions that will change the situation but closer cooperation. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr danjean's report on the common security and defence policy, which i share in its recommendations, and i welcome its adoption in plenary. i am convinced that it is more than necessary to strengthen the means at the disposal of the european union to implement a credible and operational defence policy, capable of guaranteeing the strategic autonomy of our common space. this requires greater involvement of the member states on the ground and greater sharing of responsibilities. common defence capabilities must also be strengthened, in particular through the implementation of common programmes such as the european surveillance drone and governmental satellite telecommunications. finally, it is essential to concentrate our efforts on the european defence industry; the consolidation of the european defence technological industrial base is therefore indispensable. all these measures will have to enable us to adapt our efforts to the level of the threats we are facing in the european union today.
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed mr danjean's report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy, which seeks to use the security and economic challenges facing the member states to justify a gradual stripping of their sovereignty in favour of a european army that will be nothing more than nato's lieutenant. the report deplores the fact that some member states are not taking part in the main military operations currently being conducted by the union, which raises doubts as to the freedom of states to take part in a given conflict. i am also concerned about the possibility, mentioned in the report, of introducing 'tax incentives' to force member states to 'military cooperation'; this proposal is nothing but the actual implementation of a tax blackmail. the increase in defence spending recently decided by the german government proves that the states have the possibility of investing in a large national army. the objective of solidarity in the field of defence must not be used to acknowledge the death of national defence.
in writing. ‒ this report takes stock of the common foreign and security policy in 2014, and in particular of the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp). it is a realistic constant of the gradual deterioration of the security environment in the neighbourhood in southern and eastern europe, in a context of the us refocusing on asia and unconcerted cuts in national defence budgets. it calls on the member states to implement and respect the conclusions of the european council of december 2013, which recognised the need to strengthen the csdp, to improve its effectiveness, visibility and impact, to increase capacity development and to strengthen the european defence industry. considering that the european council next june needs to critically assess the implementation of the decisions taken at the european council in december 2013 and present concrete measures in line with the commitments already made and not implemented, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the european union has a role to play in preserving international peace and security. this is both a matter of making our work visible on the international scene and of ensuring our own security. i voted in favour of this report, which once again underlines the inconsistency of a talk of self-interest which is not followed by concrete means of strengthening the common foreign and security policy. i regret the reduction in defence budgets in a number of member states. france cannot continue to provide the defence efforts that benefit its european partners on its own. this is all the more regrettable given that many threats, including terrorism, are at the doorstep, or even within, our territories.
in writing. ‒ the level of instability at europe's borders must encourage europe to provide a stronger response in terms of security and defence. it is vital that member states use defence tools more effectively and increase the pooling of their military forces. the external and internal security policies must also be more closely integrated. the security challenges facing the union cross borders and require better-adapted tools. i am thinking in particular of our counter-terrorism and cybersecurity strategies. finally, the union's action must focus on its immediate neighbourhood by developing civilian and military missions to manage crises and the aftermath of crises. the situation in the countries of the southern mediterranean and in the east, in ukraine, has shown that a security approach must go hand in hand with an approach to economic development.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the report aims to revive the debate on the com munitization of defence and security policies. it lists the new threats to the european territory, in particular the terrorist risks which have been increasing for several years. the only purpose of this is to give credit to this report, which is not misleading. the union does not seem to understand that the maintenance of defence and security necessarily requires border management. no one can claim to be safe from an outside threat unless he manages the gates to his territory in the best possible way. the community will only have the effect of severely affecting national sovereignty, but it will not be able to solve the problems. the solution lies in increased cooperation between states, which have control over their foreign and defence policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted resolutely against this resolution, which provides for a genuine safeguarding of national sovereignty and freedom and excludes any possibility of establishing a strong and independent europe, built around free nations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the danjean report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the report aims to relaunch cooperation between member states in the field of foreign and defence policy, in particular in view of the international environment and new threats such as cybersecurity, organised crime and terrorism. the main proposals in this report relate mainly to the financing of cfsp operations, the training of personnel, the sharing of resources and the development of a common strategy against new threats. however, this report once again ignores the responsibility of nato and the european union for the development of conflicts on europe's borders. in libya, the middle east and even ukraine, euro-atlanticists have played the role of sorcerers' apprentices by supporting extremists, islamists in the south, russophobes in the east. peace on europe's borders will only be restored if the european states pursue a policy independent of the united states and the gulf monarchies. giving more resources to the european "hawks" would only serve to spread war and despair to our borders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the aim is to combat terrorism and organised crime, strengthen cyber defence and tackle illegal immigration. the security environment in the european union and its neighbours to the east and south has reached a level of instability which must require the union to become a decisive and united actor. i am in particular in favour of strengthening the european defence agency and the industrial and technological base for european defence.
in writing. ‒ i would like to commend the quality of the annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy, drawn up by my colleague, arnaud danjean. this report comes at the right time: the multiplication of crises at the doorstep of europe and the prospect of the european council on 25 and 26 june devoted to security and defence matters required us to produce an objective analysis of the situation. a defence europe should be a priority for the european union, which, by the values it defends, has a duty to protect its citizens and a responsibility to intervene in conflict zones to reduce instability. unfortunately, we often feel that a 'defence europe' is just a pipe dream. this is the result of the lack of cooperation between member states, some being reluctant to provide the operational means, others the financial means, while security and stability are the problem of all. i hope that the next european council will present more ambitious conclusions for the future of the common security and defence policy by allowing the most advanced states to move forward through strengthened and more flexible cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the implementation of the common security and defence policy. this text begins by denying the sovereignty of the member states in matters of foreign policy, since it tends to make it impossible for a state to oppose the union's foreign policy. the rapporteur, arnaud danjean, therefore wants to force all the member states into a community foreign policy, advocating common external interventions in which no state can refuse to participate. finally, the idea behind this report is the necessary abandonment of national defence capabilities since most states are no longer able to maintain their own armed forces. the solution would therefore be to establish a single european defence, which i oppose, so that france can retain its sovereignty and its defence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague arnaud danjean on the common defence and security policy. the report takes stock of the union's external policy situation and welcomes in particular the engagement of hr/vp frederica mogherini in defence matters, and also points to the need for greater military and strategic cooperation between the different member states in order to ensure the best possible defence of the european union. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's annual resolution on the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp). this resolution, drafted by my colleague, ump arnaud danjean, calls on the european union and its member states to assume more responsibilities immediately in the framework of the common security and defence policy, which must become a major instrument for ensuring the security of the european union and its environment, in the current context of unprecedented instability on the eu's borders. in this context of multiple crises, unprecedented since the launch of the european security and defence policy 16 years ago, member states must make rapid and substantial progress in equipping the eu with operational, industrial and capacity resources to prevent and manage international crises and to assert the eu's genuine strategic autonomy on the international stage.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. this report clearly aims at stripping the member states of their sovereignty and favours the creation of a european army subordinate to nato. paragraph 24 for example 'deplores the persistent problems of build-up of forces experienced during the launching of military missions; notes that with the exception of eutm mali, to which 23 member states are effectively contributing, the current union military operations only concern a maximum of half a dozen member states each; encourages member states to provide more forces for operations.' it is therefore simply regrettable that the member states still have a choice of which missions they participate in. the report not only advocates the creation of a single defence market, but also considers that member states are not capable of having effective research programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it supports the strengthening of the european common defence and security policy and thus paves the way for the creation of a european army. i believe that each state must remain in control of its own national defense. moreover, this european army would in reality be at the service of nato and the united states, as point 9 admits, which calls for 'total complementarity with nato'. france's interest is to develop a policy of balance between the great powers, in line with the policy initiated by general de gaulle.
in writing. - i voted against it. the aim of this report is to build a common security and defence policy. to justify this, the text describes the threats that would be posed to europe in order to convince of the need to create this common defence policy. the report also deplores the lack of resources for the european union to play an international military role (point 6). the european union regrets the lack of involvement of some of the member states in the recent conflicts. we may even fear that sanctions will be taken against those states which are not sufficiently cooperative (point 28 with reference to tax incentives). there is also a desire for allegiance to nato, which is unacceptable. it is clearly a text of surrender of sovereignty in a highly strategic area, defence, which guarantees precisely the independence of a nation.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this report, under the guise of standardizing and upgrading the union's defence capabilities, leads us towards a european army, vassal of nato, in which the member states will be stripped of their sovereignty. it forces a uniformity of states' positions on foreign policy, which prevents any disagreement, and even suggests 'tax incentives' to force member states to participate in all military operations! we are firmly opposed to this.
in writing. ‒ following mr juncker's statement on the need to create a european army, this report is timely for the commission. he advocated greater autonomy for the common european security and defence policy (csdp), particularly vis-à-vis nato, by requesting the same budgetary capacities. the treaty of lisbon increased the eu's exclusive competence in this area, but left purely military matters to the states. but among the austerity measures, the states have cut back on budgetary expenditure. the european commission and mr danjean are therefore seizing this opportunity to gradually transfer national resources and thus the management of defence matters to the community budget and the european defence agency. this report by the ump and the other two submitted for vote are in the same vein and now find enthusiastic support in the european parliament in the wake of the ukrainian crisis. i am opposed to the bellicose policy of european defence and i am voting against this report which does not hesitate to distort the very interpretation of the treaties in order to limit the sovereignty of the states even further. in any case, france has no business in such an agglomeration.
in writing. ‒ this text begins by denying the sovereignty of the member states in matters of foreign policy, since it seeks to make it impossible for a state to oppose the union's foreign policy. the rapporteur, arnaud danjean, therefore wants to force all the member states into a community foreign policy, advocating common external interventions in which no state can refuse to participate. finally, the idea behind this report is the necessary abandonment of national defence capabilities since most states are no longer able to maintain their own armed forces. the solution would therefore be to establish a single european defence, which i oppose, so that france can retain its sovereignty and its defence. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this report on the implementation of mr danjean's common foreign and security policy is a serious attack on one of the elements of national sovereignty. the report, which is faithful to the policy of small steps but which denies this will, proposes to add a stone to the utopian edifice of a 'european army' which was already rejected in 1954 under the name of the european defence community. it is about pooling and sharing, that is, pooling and sharing national defence through the common foreign and security policy. worse, the pretext of austerity and the breakdown of national defence budgets is used to promote this pooling and thus accelerate the process of a european army. the cfsp is also just one aspect of the eu's policy of submission to the wishes of the us and nato. this pooling of resources and the embryo of a european army is inefficient, since the interests of the various member states diverge. the interests of the american "foreign federator", as general de gaulle called it, will therefore be served more and more. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the implementation of the common european security and defence policy. in the current context of instability at the eu's borders and in its immediate neighbourhood, unprecedented since the creation of the csdp in the late 1990s, this text stresses the need for the european union to adapt urgently to the new security challenges facing it. this is to use the tools already existing in the lisbon treaty and to make csdp more closely linked to the union's foreign policy, humanitarian aid policy and development policy. this resolution also calls for closer coordination of national action. the aim is to ensure that the union becomes a decisive and united actor in the face of each of these threats.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy, a text which is part of the european council's perspective of 25 and 26 june 2015, when security and defence issues will be discussed. the many crises and threats facing europe today call into question the means that the european union deploys for its own security and that of its environment. as this report shows, the common security and defence policy must be a major instrument for europe to play its part.
in writing. ‒ defence is one of the most important royal functions. a country which can no longer decide its defence policy or judge the use of its armed forces in its own interests has lost all sovereignty. the recent geopolitical crises, including those on the doorstep of the european union, have shown that not all member states have the same analysis or the same interests. there is no question of my approving the subjugation of france and the loss of its sovereignty to an entity as illegitimate and undemocratic as the european union, let alone nato, which is in fact manoeuvring and deciding on the use of a european army. i shall of course vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the increase in crises and conflicts in certain parts of the world over the last decade, the union needs to have the appropriate instruments to respond effectively. the main instrument is the common security and defence policy, but at present it does not allow the union to respond properly to crises and to assert itself on the international scene. the european parliament has adopted the report by my colleague, mr arnaud danjean, on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. i have spoken in favour of this report and i support the points for improvement. in particular, the common security and defence policy should enable the union to respond in a more coordinated way and to try to act in a sustainable way.
in writing. ‒ i supported the parliament's annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp). the global environment is becoming more and more unstable. the war in eastern ukraine, the conflicts in syria and iraq, and terrorism in africa are just a few examples. in the face of the proliferation of conflicts and crises, we have a duty to act both to protect ourselves and to reduce this geopolitical instability. our report calls for the development of a common security and defence policy in which the eu would be a decisive player. while european commitment is welcome in some regions, such as the horn of africa, the eu clearly lacks leadership in most operations conducted by member states. at the next european council in june 2015, we expect states to take concrete measures to improve the union's territorial defence capability.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague arnaud danjean, which is in line with the european council of 25 and 26 june 2015, when security and defence issues will be discussed. given the current geopolitical context, with the increase in crises and conflicts, it is necessary and urgent for the european union to act to ensure its protection and the stability of its environment. it is urgent that we strengthen the common security and defence policy of the european union, with particular emphasis on the development of cooperation, assistance and the financing and solidarity mechanisms provided for in the treaty.
in writing. ‒ the report is intended to persuade the eu authorities to reform or relaunch the common security and defence policy at the june 2015 summit. the report highlights the deterioration of the security environment (us rebalancing in asia, the middle east, ukraine) and the emergence of 'new threats' such as cybersecurity, organised crime and terrorism. it should be noted that the summit in december 2013 was a failure for the supporters of european defence. the report must also be placed in the context of the recent nato summit and the constant demand from the americans that the member countries of the alliance spend 2% of their gdp on defence. the report's demands relate mainly to the financing of operations, the training of staff, the sharing of resources and the development of a common strategy on the various major threats. i voted against this text because of its blatant desire to make the foreign and defence policies of the member states, one of the last surviving areas of sovereignty, a community policy.
in writing. ‒ this report is a logical follow-up to the danjean report and aims to strengthen the common security and defence policy by increasing its financial and human resources. this report goes further than the one on the implementation of the csdp, as it 'calls for the union's role in defence matters within nato to be strengthened', i.e. for the union to simply take the place of the member states. the report also calls for the pooling of resources, whereas the costs would be borne by the member states. it then stresses that by withdrawing the individual financing for operational military or defence expenditure, member states will eventually lose their independence. they will no longer be able to choose whether or not to participate in missions, since, according to the 'principle of solidarity', no state could refuse. i therefore naturally voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because i am in favour of greater coherence between external and internal policy instruments and of greater cooperation and coordination between member states, particularly in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, as well as in the areas of cybersecurity and immigration. this is the first step towards a european army...
in writing. the report by eduard kukan and indrek tarand on the financing of the common security policy cannot in any case be supported by me, because of my opposition to the common foreign and security policy. i would briefly remind you that this policy of sharing the foreign and security policies of the member states is ineffective and even counterproductive, and it seriously undermines the sovereignty of the member states. on this particular report, which is supposed to provide funding for the cfsp, my opposition is similar. not only must states retain full control of their defence capabilities, but they must also retain the absolute necessity to decide on the allocation of resources that they intend to allocate to these same capabilities. i am shocked by the european union's repeated desire to control the budgets of the member states. the states are sovereign in this matter as in all others. for these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to respond to the observation that there is no european solidarity in external military interventions. for example, the french army's intervention in mali was not supported financially and materially by the germans. however, the success of the operations will have a positive impact on the fight against terrorism for all member states. it is this contradiction that the union is trying to address in order to conceal its lack of credibility in this area. the report therefore seeks to replace intergovernmental diplomacy with a common european security policy, rather than giving member states full control of their defence budgetary policy. the aim will now be to encourage, through fiscal and budgetary arrangements, the pooling of each member state's military capabilities. to this end, the report stresses the need to deepen the europeanisation of the union's external policies by making full use of the legal possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the current international context calls for more cooperation between member states in the field of defence. this also means more rigorous rules on the financing of the common security and defence policy. the budget allocated by the member states to defence is not large enough for the european union to guarantee security in its neighbourhood. i voted in favour of the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is only a logical follow-up to mr danjean's report on the csdp, which is aimed at strengthening the csdp and its financial and human resources. the report by eduard kukan and indrek tarand also states that the eventual defence of europe will be left to nato, that is to say, to the united states. the idea of pooling resources and thus providing the csdp with its own budget was also put forward. while in theory this effort to rationalize the budget may seem commendable, since it is a matter of simplifying the organizational structure around the csdp, this empowerment would represent a further step towards european defence, that is to say towards a loss of sovereignty with the disappearance of national defenses. the report also calls for the abolition of the individual financing of military or defence operations, which would lead, under the principle of solidarity, to depriving member states of their independence, since they would no longer be able to choose which missions they participate in or not.
in writing. ‒ the present report aims to express the european parliament's concerns about the lack of funding for the common security and defence policy and calls, in particular, for more flexibility and coherence in the implementation of this policy. if europe is to make progress in this strategic area and meet the challenges of the present, budgetary commitments should be proposed that are commensurate with our ambitions. in addition, it is necessary to strengthen the coherence and complementarity of the common security and defence policy with national defence policies, with a view to reducing duplication and financial transparency of missions and operations. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in the face of public deficits, pooling member states' resources is a better response than uncoordinated cuts in defence budgets. moreover, when member states wish to engage together civilly and/or militarily, they must be able to implement means of close cooperation. these means exist in the treaty of lisbon. i therefore call on the vice-president of the commission and high representative, federica mogherini, to encourage heads of state and government to take full advantage of the treaty provisions. flexible financing and decision-making will allow missions and operations under the common security and defence policy to be deployed quickly and efficiently, which is all the more urgent today in view of the security challenges we face in europe.
in writing. ‒ the union is facing new challenges that are difficult to grasp because they are of different natures: security-related challenges such as terrorism, but also humanitarian and development-related challenges such as managing migration flows. our defence policy must be able to respond to this. to this end, member states must show greater solidarity by pooling their resources and coordinating their foreign policies more closely. tools to enable funds to be released more quickly for interventions must also be available.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy. the member states must retain their prerogatives in this area. to do this, they must of course also be free to choose the budgets they wish to allocate to it. far from adopting this principle, the union prefers to focus on the pooling of resources. this report shows the ineffectiveness of the union's action. i would remind you that the french people are particularly keen to preserve these policies, which are a safeguard against the wishes of a european defence project. these reports are not the only purpose of their proposals, but are steps towards a succession of proposals that are increasingly risky.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy. the report concludes that the member states are not meeting the helsinki objectives set in 1999. these objectives included the deployment of a european ground force of 50,000 to 60,000 men, based on the resources made available by each country. in addition, air and naval forces were to complement this land force. the report also notes that in recent years funding for civilian missions under the csdp has declined. this decrease even forced the commission to postpone payment of eur 22 million to 2015. however, in view of the bellicose and disastrous foreign policy pursued by the european union in africa, the middle east and even on the european continent, in ukraine, it is to be welcomed that the helsinki objectives have not been achieved. with the present leadership, giving the european union military means would be like letting children play with guns.
in writing. ‒ this report is a logical follow-up to the danjean report and aims to strengthen the common security and defence policy by increasing its financial and human resources. the text goes further than the csdp implementation report, since it 'calls for the union's defence role in nato to be strengthened'. in other words, the union is replacing the member states. the report also calls for the pooling of resources, with the costs remaining with the member states. the report also stresses that by withdrawing the individual financing for operational military or defence expenditure, member states will eventually lose their independence. they will no longer be able to choose whether or not to participate in missions, since, according to the 'principle of solidarity', no state can refuse to participate. for all these reasons, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues kukan and tarand on the financing of the common defence and security policy. the report makes several proposals for cost savings and efficiency gains, such as the lack of transparency in the choice of private companies in the protection of civilian personnel in conflict zones, and also calls for more coherence and synergy between military and civilians in a conflict zone in order to maximise costs. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy (csdp). no member state can face alone the security instability that is unfolding at the gates of the union. it is therefore necessary to make the common security and defence policy an effective strategic instrument which can guarantee the security of european citizens and promote european interests and values.
in writing. ‒ like the other members of the national front, i voted against the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy. like the danjean report on the implementation of this policy, this report aims to pool the resources of the member states to lead to the creation of a single european army. it is almost like dreaming when one reads the first paragraph of the report, in particular, which 'deplores the modest nature of the csdp interventions, in particular military operations, which are essentially small-scale military training missions instead of major contributions by europe to the maintenance and enforcement of peace; is convinced that the european union cannot be content to focus exclusively on post-crisis or exit support instruments, but must, on the contrary, be able to intervene across the whole spectrum of crisis management.' the european union, which is not even able to control its own external borders, now has the ambition to make "major contributions" to the imposition of peace throughout the world. ridicule does not kill.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, in the logic of the danjean report, it wants to pool resources to enable the creation of a european army.
in writing. - we voted against this report. the aim of this report is to strengthen the common security and defence policy (csdp) by pooling its human and financial resources. on paper, this seems positive since the csdp would thus have its own budget and resources. in reality, it is a question of withdrawing the individual funding of the member states and thus their independence, since they will no longer have the possibility of choosing which missions they wish to participate in. we are against this idea.
in writing. ‒ the report regrets the modest nature of military interventions under the common security and defence policy (csdp), calls for a more rapid and flexible deployment of missions and advocates civil-military cooperation in research. it also called for systematic participation by all states in the athena financial mechanism, which provides for the financing of the common costs of the member states' military operations (except denmark) and also for research into nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical weapons. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i do not have to choose between plague and cholera, between the nato war-mongering army and its reproduction at european level to go and intervene in ukraine and sow confusion at our borders or elsewhere. i am opposed to this report and to that of the ump member, and i denounce the irresponsibility of the greens in allowing a baltic rapporteur of the most warmongering persuasion to take over this matter.
in writing. ‒ this report is a logical follow-up to the danjean report and aims to strengthen the common security and defence policy by increasing its financial and human resources. the text goes further than the csdp implementation report, since it 'calls for the union's defence role in nato to be strengthened'. in other words, the union is replacing the member states. the report also calls for the pooling of resources, with the costs remaining with the member states. the report also stresses that by withdrawing the individual financing for operational military or defence expenditure, member states will eventually lose their independence. they will no longer be able to choose whether or not to participate in missions, since, according to the 'principle of solidarity', no state can refuse to participate. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. this report is concerned about the lack of mutualisation and solidarity among eu countries in the field of defence. but the modest nature of military operations under the common security and defence policy is only a reflection of the profound divergences of interests between the various member states. the idea of a federated european army is therefore a dream that only the pro-european minds can believe to be a foreboding one. the divisions over the war in iraq or even the intervention in libya are evidence of this. in addition, this sharing is motivated by cuts in national defence budgets: one wonders if brussels is not imposing austerity to promote the european army and thus satisfy the bellicose attitude of mr juncker, whose ideas have not thawed since the end of the cold war. it is also scandalous that this report proposes to finance military interventions from the eu budget when this is clearly prohibited by article 41 (2) of the treaty on european union. in the face of these desires, it is urgent to reduce the share of france's defence budget to 2% of gdp and instead to promote targeted and temporary bilateral cooperation. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the financing of the common european security and defence policy. the text stresses the need for the union to adapt urgently to the new security challenges that have emerged at its borders and in its immediate neighbourhood. the measures contained in the resolution propose, in particular, the establishment of permanent financial procedures for cooperation between the commission, the eeas, the european defence agency, the european space agency and the member states. the aim is to ensure that the union becomes a decisive and united actor in the face of each of these threats.
in writing. ‒ it is perfectly logical that those who advocate a common defence policy should want to put in place the means to finance it. it is equally logical that those who oppose such a betrayal of the sovereignty of the peoples should refuse to finance its implementation. i therefore vote against this text in full accordance with my previous vote.
in writing. ‒ the union's security, both internal and external, is now a matter of crucial importance. threats are multiplying and the union must be able to defend its territory and protect its citizens. in this context, i voted in favour of the resolution on the financing of the common security and defence policy. i stress the importance of promoting concrete measures and pragmatic solutions so that the union can have a real impact.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy, which only strengthens and encourages an ever-greater militarisation of the european union. i reject the csdp (common security and defence policy) which is pushing the eu towards an increasingly militarized vision and therefore towards more and more military operations, whereas the eu should be focusing on political dialogue and peace processes, putting its full weight on the scales. this approach requires colossal budgetary capacities at the expense of other policies. the gue/ngl denounced the automatic financial participation of each member state in the union's military missions as calling into question the purely civilian nature of these missions, knowing that today the civil and military aspects are increasingly mixed and confused. the gue/ngl also condemned the use and development of armed drones and the illicit practice of extrajudicial targeted executions. i reject this leap forward, which unfortunately is supported by a majority of the european parliament for reasons that are as varied as they are ambiguous.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the perspective of the forthcoming european defence summit in june. it stressed in particular the threat posed by russia and called for an end to the increasing dependence of the defence industries on the outside world. the integrated defence market is also highlighted. but why limit scientific cooperation in defence matters to the european union alone? in this respect, temporary partnerships, bilateral or multilateral, and of fixed duration, which can be cancelled at any time, must be the solution. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in favour of a european army, i agree with the conclusions of this report.
in writing. ‒ the gomes report on europe's defence capabilities follows the same logic as the danjean report and the report by eduard kukan and indrek tarand, which ultimately aim at pooling the defence capabilities of the member states of the european union. i am firmly opposed to any idea of sharing, not for ideological reasons but for pragmatic and efficient reasons. it is unthinkable to imagine an integrated european defence market in the short, medium or even long term. this federalist logic must be rejected in its entirety and in its details, since it is clear that the existence of such a market would restrict the decision-making capacities of the member states and their most basic sovereignty. france, like the other member states, cannot confine itself to such a geographically restrictive view of its interests. as such, scientific cooperation in this field must be subject to temporary and reversible partnerships and not to mandatory transfers of technology imposed against the will of the states. i therefore naturally vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report anticipates the next european defence summit scheduled for june. it rightly points out the various threats facing europe: hybrid wars, terrorism and the growing dependence of 'european' defence industries on the outside world. the report uses the emergence of common threats as a pretext to push the union to strengthen the development of an integrated european defence market. the technocrats in brussels should be reminded that such a market is simply unthinkable. scientific and military cooperation between several states is by its nature reversible, since it depends on the temporary framework of bilateral or multilateral relations between them. this is why the member states must not confine themselves to 'european' partnerships and develop military cooperation with third countries, such as russia. i am opposed to the principle of creating a european army under the aegis of nato, and i voted against this text, which is part of the line of the two previous reports.
in writing. ‒ the report on the impact of developments in the european defence market on common security and defence capabilities highlights the need to coordinate the economic policies of the member states related to the defence market. although defence remains primarily a matter for member states, the optimal functioning of the single market requires european countries to cooperate and remove trade barriers in this area. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which has no other aim than the creation of a single european defence market. in line with the danjean and kukan reports, the aim is to use the security and economic challenges facing the member states to promote the pooling of resources. the idea is simple: a european defence market will supply the european federal army with equipment. the report also urges the commission to take punitive action against member states accused of failing or misapplying the 2009 defence directives. the aim is therefore to "mother" the recalcitrant states so that they sell their sovereignty and the interests of their national industries. finally, the strategic partnerships with russia are again highlighted; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on all fronts, the european union is seeking to disarm nations, but patriots will continue to fight to preserve their countries' strategic interests.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the member states in the run-up to the european defence summit in june 2015. beyond the adoption of policy frameworks for defence cooperation, states must take concrete action through the establishment of enhanced cooperation. these are particularly relevant in the case of the defence equipment market. it also recalled the possibilities for the defence industries, and in particular smes, to finance their projects through european funds. finally, i support the rapporteur's request for a common position on the use of armed drones. i remain convinced that defence is also a european issue.
in writing. ‒ this report presents the main developments in the european defence market and their implications for security and defence in europe. i note with concern that the report shows, in particular, that recent developments could jeopardise european autonomy because of the various budget cuts. the report calls for the establishment of a common strategy, greater regulatory coordination and the deepening of the internal market in the field of defence industries, with a view to preserving european autonomy. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. it draws up a series of recommendations aimed at achieving an integrated defence market. the more foolish the latter are, the more they must compensate for the dependence of european states on defence and security. however, we know that the union seeks to take irreversible and binding decisions. that is why i voted against this report, to express my strong and unanimous rejection of these excesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the gomes report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. the report highlights new threats such as cyberterrorism, terrorism and hybrid wars in eastern europe. it also stressed industrial cooperation between certain member states and russia, particularly in the fields of space, science and the military, which was seen as a form of dependence. if the partial and russophobic nature of this observation is already a problem in itself, the solutions advocated are not better. the aim is to promote the emergence of an integrated defence market and to combat protectionist practices in the member states in the field of defence. in other words, this report wants to extend european integration to the defence market, so that the european union can further reduce the sovereignty of the member states and have more leeway to pursue its disastrous foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the perspective of the forthcoming european defence summit in june. the text particularly stresses the threat posed by russia and calls for an end to the increasing dependence of the defence industries on the outside world. the integrated defence market is also being put forward, which is the opposite of common sense: defence scientific cooperation must not be confined to the union, let alone be part of a consistent policy. in this respect, temporary bilateral or multilateral partnerships with a fixed duration, which can be cancelled at any time, must be the solution: yesterday's friend can, overnight, turn into a potential enemy. the technocrats of the european union want to push integration into their union even further, in defiance of the sovereignty of the member states, from whom they want to take away all foreign and defence policy. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ana gomes on the evolution of european defence markets. this report points to the decline in defence spending by states and the lack of coordination among states on this issue. the committee also expressed concern at the decline in state investment in european defence companies and the increased dependence on non-european defence companies. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. at a time when the european union is facing unprecedented multiple and direct threats, we need to structure a european defence market, the only one capable of guaranteeing the dependency of the european defence sector and encouraging better cost sharing.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to create an integrated defence market. i believe that in matters of defence a state must retain the power to enter into temporary partnerships with whomever it wishes, concluded in a freely negotiated bilateral or multilateral framework. i also condemn the interference which this text advocates in the negotiations by states on their defence procurement contracts.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report calls for the financial and human resources of the common security and defence policy to be strengthened. here again we find the willingness to abandon any form of sovereignty for the member states by obeying nato which would direct the various operations. the financial pooling sought by this project would accentuate the creation of a european defence, which would be tantamount to the loss of our sovereignty in this area. the commission wants to abolish individualised financing, which clearly means the end of the independence of the member states, which will be unable or unwilling to participate freely in military action.
in writing. ‒ in the war-mongering vein of the european defence reports, this text promotes 'the progressive establishment of a european defence equipment market'. the main aim is to avoid any cooperation with russia in sensitive areas such as satellite launching, soyuz rockets or strategic air transport. the text also aims to "combat protectionist practices by member states" and to further limit the sovereignty of states in the field of defence. there's no way we're taking on the defense of irresponsible warmongers. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the perspective of the forthcoming european defence summit in june. the text particularly stresses the threat posed by russia and calls for an end to the increasing dependence of the defence industries on the outside world. the integrated defence market is also being put forward, which is the opposite of common sense: defence scientific cooperation must not be confined to the union, let alone be part of a consistent policy. in this respect, temporary bilateral or multilateral partnerships with a fixed duration, which can be cancelled at any time, must be the solution: yesterday's friend can, overnight, turn into a potential enemy. the technocrats of the european union want to push integration into their union even further, in defiance of the sovereignty of the member states, from whom they want to take away all foreign and defence policy. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. this report on 'europe's defence capabilities' follows the line of the previous danjean and kukan and tarand reports, which aimed at pooling the defence capabilities of the member states of the european union on the pretext that this would avoid duplication, reduce costs and improve management. but why stop at the european level and not start at the world level (and beyond)? what would have happened to the shared elements in the iraq war when more than 80% of the eu countries had taken a stand for george bush? 20% of charles de gaulle would stay in france, the rest would go to the americans? what would have been done in libya where the german government has repeatedly expressed its reluctance (and rightly so)? this would limit the member states' capacity to act. the divergent interests of the member states show the futility of such a project which can only satisfy brussels' "best" ally: the united states. let us first propose targeted and temporary (and therefore reversible) bilateral agreements, particularly in the technological field, and not in a mandatory way. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the impact of developments in defence markets on the security and defence capabilities of the european union. this text recalls our growing dependence on exports from outside the european union and the increase in foreign investment in the european defence sector in some countries. this could lead to a lack of transparency and to the transfer of control of strategic industries, resources and technologies at national and european level. this resolution calls for enhanced cooperation between member states and the development of an effective and independent european defence industrial and technological base. it is about ensuring europe's ability to protect its citizens, its interests and its values.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the threats (hybrid wars in the eastern neighbourhood, terrorism) and mentions the risk of increased external dependence of 'european' defence industries due to the crisis and vis-à-vis russia, with which some states maintain commercial and scientific relations in the military field. to counter these threats, the text makes a series of recommendations to enable the emergence of an integrated defence market (common position on exports, control of dual-use technologies). it also addresses funding issues (e.g. whether or not to join horizon 2020) and management methods (pool and sharing). it advocates combating protectionist practices in the field of defence. like the previous texts, it is therefore part of the federalist logic of the establishment of a common european army. i am not going to endanger the independence of france in the field of defence and defence industry, so i am naturally voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the increasingly reduced defence budgets of the member states and the increase in armed conflicts and international crises, the union must be able to mobilise its resources properly and effectively in order to play a key role on the international stage and contribute to global stability. in this context, parliament adopted a motion for a resolution on the impact of developments in european defence markets on security and defence capabilities in europe. i am glad that i voted in favour of this text. this proposal highlights the importance of strengthening the capabilities and competitiveness of our european defence industry through the development of an industrial strategy. the union's existing capabilities must be used to strengthen our european security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ this report is in line with the june defence summit. it stressed the threats (hybrid wars in the eastern neighbourhood, terrorism) and the risk of increased external dependence of 'european' defence industries as a result of the crisis, in particular vis-à-vis russia, with which some states maintain commercial and scientific relations in the military field. to counter these threats, the report makes a series of recommendations to enable the emergence of an integrated defence market (export controls and control of dual-use technologies). it also deals with the problems of financing and management methods. it advocates combating protectionist practices in the field of defence. it should be stressed that any integrated defence market is unthinkable. scientific cooperation in this field should not be confined to europe or be the subject of a permanent policy for any state but should be based on temporary and easily reversible partnerships, without forced transfers of technology and concluded in a bilateral or multilateral framework. i vote against it.
mr president, i would like to inform my colleague that marine le pen is in paris and that if he really wants to know about the relations we may have with the president of the duma, the exchanges we have every year with president naryshkin, he should know that this is not about financing but about politics and the relations we have in a way that i have personally had for a very long time, for twenty years with this country. so, ladies and gentlemen, please stop talking nonsense, stop looking for information in the gutters and stick to your job as a professional, honest member of parliament.
madam president, mr vice-president, the g7 is going to meet and they're not going to say a word about the humanitarian crisis unfolding in syria? it simply cannot be! i would like to ask the european union, on behalf of our parliament, to stress this need and urgency at this summit. today, as you know, there are millions of internally displaced people inside syria. eight million syrians have been forced to flee their homes and live in increasingly degraded conditions. in neighboring countries, four million refugees also live below the poverty line. all religious minorities, whether ismaili or christian, are likely to be affected by the advance of the islamic state in the areas where the group is now arriving. thousands of syrians are trying to leave syria by any means, whether by sea or by land, and losing their lives. and the g7 would say nothing? this is the worst humanitarian crisis of our time, as you call it in the united nations. the secretary-general rightly mentioned this earlier. this crisis should trigger a global mobilization and the mobilization of all of europe. i ask you to act in that direction. today, you need to know that aid is decreasing, it's decreasing, and all the humanitarian needs in syria are systematically underfunded. i ask you to take this message to the g7 and i thank you in advance for doing so.
madam president, mr timmermans, on 8 and 9 june the summit of the club of friends of america will be held. but today, the world has changed. what is the point of discussing world affairs without china, russia, india, brazil, south africa or iran? as my colleague said earlier, let us be very careful that the logic of the clubs - the g7 on the one hand, the brics on the other - does not lead to the logic of the blocs, a logic which prepares for war. none of the questions that the un secretary-general proposes to consider - immigration, sustainable development, health, development aid - can be answered by the logic of the blocs. let us return to a logic of cooperation between nations, not confrontation. this parliament has chosen a side. look at how he demonizes russia, more than kerry, more than the united states. sadly, by choosing sides, he is no longer able to promote peace!
in writing. the 41st g7 summit should help to find an international consensus on development and environmental protection policies. the summit is expected to prepare for the next two un conferences, the paris climate summit (cop 21) and the post-2015 development agenda summit. germany considers that it will be essential to find common commitments in the field of foreign and security policy. the german presidency wants to emphasise certain themes such as the strengthening of the role of women. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but that it is a political entity. the european socialists stressed that economic growth was in no way incompatible with environmental protection. on the contrary, the implementation of the circular economy demonstrates that the two are linked. europe must seize this opportunity!
mr president, education in good eating habits is essential, but it is being jeopardized by the junk food of the large fast food chains, which are too frequented at lunchtime by teenagers - a public which will also have to be taken into account in the future. it is absolutely essential that each school participating in the programme sources local products from its immediate surrounding area and thus encourages short circuits. the difficulties faced by our producers would be less if a genuine food sovereignty policy were advocated. this would avoid the unfair competition in terms of prices and jobs which our french fruit and vegetable producers suffer systematically. instead of imposing the european union logo, it would be better to promote local producers. finally, since it is a question of children, we must insist on organic products, because it is useless to fight against obesity if, moreover, the fruits and vegetables consumed contain pesticides, since practices differ from country to country. despite his imperfections, we support the project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, although the european commission has not made any progress on the russian embargo, the purpose of this european programme is to continue to finance the distribution of milk, vegetables and fruit. it has three major impacts: a social impact, a health impact and an economic impact. even if some of the provisions adopted are questionable, as my colleague mr huitema has very well pointed out, the european parliament's proposal is a notable improvement on the european commission's proposal. but there's a paradox, we're making wishes here. if we are offered quality products in the canteens, it is to help us to make progress on a disastrous treaty - the transatlantic treaty - which, by virtue of the principle of free trade, will bring us american junk food and call into question all our european social standards.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on this report, which reinforces the fruit and vegetable, banana and milk programmes in schools and their educational purpose. healthy eating is an important issue for european citizens, as it plays a major role in the fight against certain diseases such as obesity. the european union is therefore legitimate in this matter. it is also important to maintain separate programmes, ensuring that the specific characteristics of fruit and vegetables on the one hand and milk and milk products on the other are taken into account. finally, commissioner, to achieve our objectives, it is essential to simplify and unify the administrative procedures for more effective implementation of the programmes. on the other hand, the compromise adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) is problematic because the criteria for allocating the budgetary envelopes envisaged between the member states do not seem fair to us, given the earlier implementation of the criteria by the member states. the rapporteur proposes that after a transitional period of six years the historical criteria for allocating the envelopes which member states have benefited from be abolished. their appropriations are therefore likely to be reduced at the end of this period, which would be tantamount to penalising the states, including france, which have historically invested in these programmes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. but this budgetary increase, in a context where the overall budget for agriculture is being reduced, is unfortunately unlikely to succeed. we will not support amendments to that effect, although we are in favour of this report.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr tarabella, for the quality and precision of his work in a context of legislative uncertainty which is difficult to accept. we are talking about health, commissioner, and i think it is important that the council takes this issue seriously, because it is the young people of europe who are at stake. the programme presented to us will enable us to encourage the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products among young europeans and thus to combat - that has been said - obesity and to promote a healthy and balanced diet. this programme, far from being anecdotal, will also help to boost local agriculture by giving priority to local and seasonal products and products from organic farming. i would like to say, as the rapporteur has said, that for nutritional reasons this programme should not cover industrial products such as chocolate milk or processed products.
in writing. healthy eating is a key issue for younger people in europe, as the risks of obesity continue to increase, particularly for children. school fruit and vegetable and milk support programmes encourage the consumption of healthy products, with priority given to local and seasonal products, while taking into account regional eating habits. of course, it is also important to teach young ones so that these eating habits are maintained outside of school. the new text also simplifies and unifies administrative procedures with a view to more efficient implementation of the programmes. i had already started this work as rapporteur for the common organisation of the market in the cap 2014-2020. it is not a question of merging them into a single programme, however, because we must preserve the specific characteristics of fruit and vegetables on the one hand and milk and milk products on the other. for these reasons i shall support the motion for a resolution.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would first like to thank all the political groups who have agreed that this debate should finally be included on our agenda. the khartoum process, initiated by the italian presidency for its former colonies, aims to revive dialogue and cooperation with eritrea, the worst dictatorship in africa. under the 11th european development fund (edf), a figure of 312 million in aid was first published, then the information disappeared from the commission's website. the tenth edf, on the other hand, had only 122 million, which was reduced to 52 million because it was not implemented. what has happened since then, apart from the fact that eritreans are the second most represented nationality among those who cross the mediterranean to italy? according to documents from the ssae (social service for the assistance of migrants), three projects on migration are to be funded in eritrea. the first would be to strengthen the capacity of the eritrean government to combat human trafficking. commissioner, this government has just declared that the people responsible for and organizing this trafficking are human rights activists and western journalists. two years ago, it was the cia. who are you going to work with, if not this corrupt government and its affiliates? this could finance a new wave of repression in a country where there are countless journalists in prison, half of whom are reported to have died in custody. the second project would build the country's judicial capacity. that's right, we have a margin. the constitution has never been implemented and there is not even a criminal code. again, who are you going to work with? the third project would be on awareness campaigns. what will you finance and, more importantly, with what money? (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
madam president, as my colleagues have already said, the french-language media outlet tv5 monde was the victim of a very large-scale cyberattack almost two months ago. terrorists have taken control of the tv station and its social networks. although there were no human casualties, the gravity of the attack cannot be underestimated, since it has undermined the fundamental principles and values of our democracy. it demonstrated the ability of terrorists to act on the internet and their disconcerting ease of spreading their speeches relentlessly in the media and social networks. cybercrime is a constantly evolving phenomenon that is very difficult to address at national level alone, which is why it is essential to strengthen the fight against the use of the internet by criminals and terrorists at european level, both in terms of prevention and detection and in terms of prosecution. this requires a better exchange of information and pooling of police capabilities, which implies greater trust and accountability between member states. this also means deeper cooperation between judicial authorities, which requires better transnational access to evidence and information and the guarantee of legal protection for whistleblowers who help prevent and detect threats on the web. if cybersecurity is a defensive response to cybercrime, we need to develop a more proactive approach. through cyberattacks, terrorists are undermining our right to information and freedom of expression and flooding the web with their ideology of hate. let's stop them from acting by strengthening our online security! (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the question with request for an oral reply (o-000048/2015) to the commission on the elimination of the practice of early and forced marriage of girls, by iratxe garcía pérez and anna maria corazza bildt, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (b8-0552/2015) (2015/2654 (((rsp)).
in writing. in 2014, the united nations children's fund (unicef) estimated that more than 250 million women worldwide were married as children. worse still, some 130 million women have been subjected to female genital mutilation (the total or partial removal of their external genitalia), mainly in africa and the middle east. in fact, it is estimated that nearly 10 million girls and teenagers are forced into marriage each year. it is high time the un raised the age of marriage and criminalized forced marriages despite local customs and traditions. this practice of degrading women is a form of modern slavery that cannot be tolerated. marriage of a child undermines her education, limits her opportunities, endangers her health, and increases her risk of being a victim of violence. girls are often married off to older men, and while forced marriage affects boys as well, it exposes girls first to early pregnancy and childbirth, the leading cause of death among 15- to 19-year-olds, according to a united nations report. the european union, which promotes equality between men and women, must therefore encourage this in its international agreements and support the end of forced marriages.
in writing. forced marriage of young girls is a real scourge that seriously undermines the dignity of women. therefore, any progress towards reducing these practices should be welcomed and encouraged, particularly in developing countries. however, this struggle, however legitimate it may be, must not be used as a pretext for the implementation of policies of interference in the internal affairs of states, especially since this scourge affects the member states of the union strongly, starting with france. according to the ngo plan france, nearly 70,000 girls have been forced into marriage in france. according to the ngo, most of these girls are immigrants from turkey, the maghreb and sub-saharan africa. so it is appropriate to sweep our own front door before we teach the nations.
in writing. in our european and christian civilization, marriage is the protective institution of women and an essential guarantee for children. if this institution, the foundation of our societies, is threatened from within by ideologies which the union likes to promote, the fact remains that a new threat is coming from outside our borders. the mass immigration to which europe has been subjected for decades has brought to our shores populations alien to our culture. the destruction of our models of assimilation and integration, caused by the resignation of the elites in the spheres of public education, culture and the defence of national cohesion, has fostered communitarianism and practices that we cannot accept. the early and forced marriage of young girls is therefore the consequence of these two dynamics and the root of the problem should be addressed by defending the cultural integrity and unity of the european nation states. the dignity and equal treatment of women are not strangers to the people of europe, but we are the best defenders of them. it is not a question of universal rights either, but it is a common identity of the nations of europe.
in writing. this oral question addresses a major problem of forced and early marriage of girls. for example, nearly one in nine girls worldwide is married off by force, and in developing countries one in two children is born to teenage mothers. the cultural and social pressures on girls in these countries are considerable. forced marriage often appears to be the only possible future for these girls, who are thus reduced to the status of objects when they are not simply sold as a commodity. this problem should not, however, make us forget that in france, as in other european countries, such practices also exist. young girls living in the european union are subjected to family pressure and forced into marriage in their parents' country of origin. it is also necessary to denounce all mutilative practices, such as circumcision, which must be combated in france as in the european union. parliament must also take an interest in these problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it meets two objectives which are very important to me. firstly, the decision merges two separate programmes for the consumption of milk and fruit in schools. this is in the direction of better regulation. finally, the decision has the effect of increasing funds for the promotion and consumption of local food products among children. this will have the effect of supporting european agricultural sectors which are currently experiencing serious difficulties.
in writing. this proposal for a european parliament decision on the opening and the mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools should make it possible to continue to finance the distribution of the above products to young children aged between six and ten years. there are still some shortcomings in this text, of course, but parliament's proposal has three major consequences. on the social side, it helps to reduce child malnutrition and ensures that all children have access to food. from a health point of view, this text promotes the fight against childhood obesity and encourages healthy eating. finally, at the economic level, it supports agricultural sectors in crisis, particularly in overseas regions such as guadeloupe and martinique. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this european programme is to continue to finance the distribution of milk, vegetables and fruit (including bananas) to children aged between six and ten. the programme has three major impacts:- social impact: by encouraging access to these foods among children from all sections of the population, the programme helps to combat child malnutrition, which continues to increase as a result of the crisis; - health impact: this programme contributes to the fight against obesity and, more generally, against the dietary habits responsible for an increasing number of serious diseases in children; - economic impact: by supporting producers of milk, vegetables, fruit and bananas from guadeloupe and martinique, the programme provides additional outlets for sectors in crisis. it is, however, worth pointing out the contradiction of the european commission's wish to support the crisis-stricken sectors in the outermost regions, while at the same time negotiating a free trade agreement with the united states that will put an end to health, social and economic dumping. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ a healthy and balanced diet should be promoted in the eu to counter the risks of obesity and other diseases linked to poor dietary habits. to do this, we must start at an early age by educating children in schools. the 'milk to school' and 'fruit and vegetables to school' programmes serve this purpose. they were separated until then. the european commission is now proposing to merge them. this will simplify administrative procedures and maximise the effectiveness of both programmes. however, care must be taken that the programmes do not lose their original value during the merger process. i voted in favour of the decision to open interinstitutional negotiations on the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools.
in writing. ‒ healthy eating is a key issue for younger people in europe, as the risks of obesity continue to increase, especially for children. these school fruit and vegetable and milk programmes encourage the consumption of healthy products and help to educate the youngest so that these eating habits can be maintained outside school. the new text also simplifies and unifies administrative procedures with a view to more efficient implementation of the programmes. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of opening the mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools. the report by mr tarabella supports the programmes to help distribute fruit and vegetables and milk in schools. healthy eating is indeed an important issue for european citizens, and nutrition plays a major role in combating certain diseases such as obesity. the european union has good reason to act in this area. the emphasis on local and seasonal products and regional food habits is also in the right direction. the report also proposes to simplify and unify administrative procedures in order to implement the programmes more effectively, while maintaining separate programmes to ensure that the specific characteristics of fruit and vegetables on the one hand and milk and milk products on the other are taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament decision on the opening and the mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in schools. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i believe that a major attention should be paid to dietary changes affecting children. schools must help to combat bad habits in order to promote healthy eating reflexes. the aim is to reduce the number of children affected by malnutrition-related diseases, particularly childhood obesity. the measures proposed will also help the food producers concerned, who have been hit hard by the european austerity policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision because it is a step forward in public health and good nutrition. however, i regret that it does not make it mandatory to source locally (especially bananas from the outermost regions) and that it does not encourage short distribution channels.
in writing. ‒ i supported the opening of negotiations to promote the supply of milk and fruit and vegetables from european producers to school canteens. this will enable children, especially the most disadvantaged, to benefit from more balanced meals, including fruits and vegetables. these products are the first to be sacrificed in family budgets in times of crisis. it is also a way of supporting the fruit and vegetable sectors which have been badly affected by the ultra-liberal policies of the european commission and by imports. the planned aid will be particularly favourable to local supplies, which is a good thing. i shall also table a motion for a resolution to fill in the gaps in the text. i think it is particularly important to provide children with meals made from organically farmed products and fish from sustainable fisheries.
in writing. ‒ in view of the phenomenon of obesity affecting more and more young people, i think it is important to spread a clear and effective message about healthy eating. eating habits are the result of the education children receive from an early age. so instilling good habits is a sensible step if the health effects of obesity on young people are to be reduced. it is therefore imperative to support the implementation of the fruit and vegetables and milk programmes in schools and to ensure that administrative procedures are facilitated to the maximum. in my experience, i have seen schools discouraged by administrative obstacles and inconsistent decisions by the responsible authorities when their sole objective was to encourage healthy consumption. the overzealousness of the administrations does not always target the good deeds. this is regrettable and it widened the gap of misunderstanding between citizens and europe. we should not be "more royalist than the king" and should encourage decisions that serve the interests of the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution giving a mandate for the report on the school fruit and vegetables and milk programme. the aim of this programme is to preserve the healthy diet of young people in all age groups, and i welcome this. however, i voted against the provisions of the report which seek to change the criteria for the allocation of the budget by member state for the milk component, as these could lead to a reduction in the financial envelope allocated to france.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's final position on the regulation on the implementation of the european programmes for the consumption of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools. these programmes encourage the consumption of healthy products, with priority given to local and seasonal products, while taking into account regional eating habits. until now, the fruit and vegetables and milk programmes have been implemented and managed separately. in adopting this new text, the european parliament has advocated simplification and unification of administrative procedures with a view to more effective implementation of the programmes.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposed by the commission has a dual objective: to encourage the consumption of fruit and vegetables, milk and bananas in schools to support these sectors and to combat poor eating habits that promote obesity. the french fruit and vegetable sector has been in crisis for some years because of unfair competition in selling prices. the dairy sector is in doubt with the end of quotas, which worries the professionals. the fear is that prices will fall and farms will disappear. as regards bananas, this fruit produced in our overseas regions faces competition from central american countries, whose prices are also lower than those of caribbean bananas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the regions concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision to finance the distribution of fruit, vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments for two reasons. one reason is that it is a way of educating children about good food hygiene and trying to turn them away from industrial "junk food". it is a pity, however, that the eu is about to take its revenge because of the future ttip treaty which will bring a flood of poor quality american products to europe. secondly, because this decision makes it possible to mitigate the consequences of the russian embargo by giving disguised subsidies to farmers. in addition, it also helps milk producers, who were victims of the abolition of the milk quotas which protected them, and banana producers in the west indies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution proposed by the commission, which has a dual objective: to promote the consumption of fruit, vegetables, milk and bananas in schools to support these sectors, and to combat the poor eating habits that promote obesity. the french fruit and vegetable sector has been in crisis for several years because of unfair competition in selling prices. the dairy sector is experiencing a period of uncertainty following the abolition of quotas, which is worrying the industry, with a collapse in prices and the disappearance of farms. as regards bananas, this fruit produced in our overseas regions faces competition from central american countries in particular, whose prices are also lower than those of caribbean bananas. we must therefore support any action to defend these various sectors, even if we may regret the role we give to the commission, which is always trying to impose itself on the member states.
in writing. ‒ school milk or fruit and vegetable programmes have been introduced to encourage children to "eat healthy foods and adopt healthy eating habits, as a response to the increasing rate of childhood obesity". the idea is to encourage a "healthy" diet. however, a closer look reveals that the pesticide-laden fruits of conventional agriculture increase the risk of cancer, and that many dairy products, for example, now cause rejection phenomena previously unknown. the commission's proposal aims to merge these two programmes. the report by parliament proposes to widen the range of products distributed, to increase the quantities of milk and to take care of the educational aspect. in the end, however, the main aim, apart from public health issues, is to propose channels for the disposal of european overproduction (15% of european agricultural production). it would be better to ask about the methods of production of these products rather than wanting to distribute them with a clear conscience. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's proposal aims to maintain financial aid for the distribution of milk and fruit and vegetables to children aged between six and ten. the main objectives are social, health and economic. from a social point of view, this proposal aims to combat child malnutrition in all classes. indeed, it is increasing. second, it helps to combat the poor eating habits that lead to obesity in some children. finally, at the economic level, this text will help the milk and fruit and vegetable producers and the banana producers of guadeloupe and martinique. although some of the positions are questionable, the overall proposal improves the commission's position. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the text provides for the creation of a common legal framework for all member states to encourage the consumption of fruit, vegetables and dairy products in schools and to develop related educational activities, such as farm visits and the distribution of healthy local specialities. it also aims to unify the financial provisions to simplify management and improve financing. healthy eating should be a priority public health objective, as should the fight against overweight and obesity in children, which according to who affects one third of children aged 6-9 in europe. since it is for the member states to decide their public health policies, the programme leaves them a great deal of latitude as to how they are to be implemented and the objective of good nutrition for children is a compelling reason of general interest which takes precedence over any other consideration. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of opening and mandating interinstitutional negotiations on the aid scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools. the programme will finance measures to encourage children to consume fruit and vegetables and milk and certain milk products in schools. with the risk of obesity increasing, particularly among children, educating young europeans about healthy eating is a major challenge. the aim of this negotiating mandate is to simplify administrative procedures in order to implement european programmes more efficiently. i have, however, opposed the provisions which threaten to reduce the budget allocated to france for the milk programme.
in writing. ‒ childhood overweight and obesity are serious threats to young people in europe. in view of the increased risks, it is important to encourage healthy and balanced diet. at this session we reaffirmed the importance and the need for action at union level by adopting parliament's final position on the regulation on the implementation of the european programmes for the consumption of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools. i voted in favour of this text and i stress the crucial role of these programmes in the food education of young people and children in europe. however, i would like to point out that one of the provisions in the text involves a real risk of reducing the envelope allocated to france to develop the milk programme. my colleagues in the french delegation and i voted against this provision.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the broad success of my socialist colleague marc tarabella on the distribution of fruit, vegetables and dairy products in schools. this report merges two old programmes and simplifies the administrative procedures for schools. he's much more ambitious. it aims in particular to encourage the consumption of fruit, vegetables and dairy products among young europeans, to combat obesity and to promote a healthy and balanced diet. with financial resources that will increase from 197 to 250 million euros, we will not only be able to distribute fruit and vegetables and milk in schools, but also to finance educational measures to teach good hygiene, to raise awareness of all aspects of nutrition and even to be able to visit farms to understand where what we eat comes from. finally, with 385 million litres of milk and 65 000 tonnes of fruit and vegetables distributed, the distribution programmes are largely geared to the short-term and to local and regional production.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this european programme is to continue to finance the distribution of milk, vegetables and fruit (including bananas) to children aged between six and ten. the programme has three major impacts:- social impact: by encouraging access to these foods by children from all sections of the population, the programme helps to combat child malnutrition, which continues to increase as a result of the crisis; - health impact: this programme contributes to the fight against obesity and, more generally, against the dietary habits responsible for an increasing number of serious diseases in children; - economic impact: by supporting producers of milk, vegetables, fruit and bananas from guadeloupe and martinique, the programme provides additional outlets for sectors in crisis. even if some of the provisions adopted are questionable, the european parliament's proposal is a notable improvement on the european commission's proposal for the forthcoming negotiations and is therefore worth adopting. i vote for it.
mr president, we are indeed a few days away from the start of the european games in baku. president ilham aliyev intends to make this event a showcase to restore the badge of his regime, which is in great need of it. there is no doubt that azerbaijan is an authoritarian regime. and to make the showcase perfect, we lock up human rights defenders in shifts. all the ngos are drawing our attention to this issue. whatever our position on sport and human rights, and on the holding of sporting events in countries under such regimes, it is important that we condemn what is happening in azerbaijan. and, as mrs lunacek said, i believe we are stronger when we express ourselves in writing. otherwise, i'd say this is a debate for laughs. that is why, as the coordinator of the gue/ngl group in the subcommittee on human rights, where we were unanimous in supporting this question, i support this request for a resolution by the green group.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i beg your pardon. we have had a number of problems at strasbourg airport. there was no car. mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report deals with one of the budgetary constraints of the common agricultural policy, but we are dealing with budgetary management in the strict sense. the report, of course, must - as the previous speaker did - address the problem of the russian embargo and its possible repercussions on this mechanism in the long term. we have already had occasion to ask ourselves this question in the committee on agriculture and rural development: is it normal that farmers, who are victims in all markets and throughout the year of a crisis of primarily diplomatic origin, should still be harmed the following year when aid is being regulated? you are not responsible for this, commissioner, and you are not the one who is being accused in this case. but it is a demonstration of solidarity on the part of the whole of the college, but also on the part of all the european institutions, that farmers are entitled to expect, and we ask you, commissioner, to be the spokesman for this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by welcoming a group from burgundy, a large french agricultural and wine-growing region, with names that smell like france, such as pouilly-fuissé, chambolle-musigny or another meursault. mr president, commissioner, this is a serious time: the european union is currently pursuing a suicidal policy in the agricultural sector. mr schulz and his friends at the european commission have adopted sanctions against russia. but now a whole continent is being held hostage in the name of political considerations. farmers are doubly affected. on the one hand, they are victims of this russian embargo, which has cost france alone - just france, listen to me - one billion euros. the european union has also been playing into the hands of the common agricultural policy to finance this fund for aid to european farmers. today we want a concrete answer: where is the european union in the negotiations to lift the sanctions, so as to give european and french farmers a living and a breathing space?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulatory question of the arbitrary rate of 1.34 for 2016 seems reasonable in the light of the information we have. the problem is not the definition of rates but the budgetary question of margins in terms of appropriations. i have already stressed this in the report for opinion on the 2016 budget, which i drafted on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development. in the course of 2016, in the event of a major crisis, the available margin under ceiling in heading 2 in terms of commitment appropriations for the 2016 budget should be used as a priority. as has been said on several occasions, there is a risk that crises in the agricultural sector will increase, particularly in view of russia's attitude towards ukraine. the non-compliance with the minsk agreements is in everyone's mind. i believe that we must guarantee funds to farmers who are doubly affected by the russian embargo. the situation for fruit and vegetables can quickly become critical throughout the territory. the question of the abolition of milk quotas, which is likely to endanger many small farms in france and in all european countries, is also on the agenda.
mr president, there is unanimous agreement that women must be defended in their delicate task of ensuring the delicate balance between their family and professional lives. it is also vital to commit ourselves to defending the rights of the most vulnerable human beings, often in situations of dependency, such as children, the elderly or the disabled. this fight should be the fight of all, although it is not the responsibility of this house. however, when i read your proposals, i am struck by the terrible contradictions which mark this report, particularly between its objectives and the means it proposes to achieve them. explain to us: how is it possible to defend women by advocating gender theory and gender indifference? how is it possible to defend the lives of the most vulnerable beings while defending abortion as an inalienable right? how is it possible to defend the balance of the family by destroying its very conception and its natural definition? you are holding the goodwill of all hostage through intellectual theories that are scurrilous and, above all, disconnected from reality. this report does no one any good, especially not women, and it will only increase voters' disgust if the european union does not rid itself of certain deadly ideologies.
mr president, once again, this is a very militant report on gender equality. so militant that he's diverting the fight against violence and discrimination against women to support immigration and lgbt communalism. there are positive aspects to this report, however, such as the fight against harassment, forced marriages, female genital mutilation, wage inequality and the dismissal of pregnant women. however, this report also contains many elements which do not defend women and are not within the competence of the european union. it is unacceptable in particular that member states are asked to recognise assisted reproduction as a right of the child, in fact disregarding the rights of the child. this right to ldc will mechanically derive from gpa, that is, the commodification of women's bodies, in the name of equality between homosexual couples. facilitating illegal immigration does not do women any favors. introducing gender theory into schools is not doing women any favors. depriving thousands of unborn children of their father is not doing women any favors. in short, voting for this report would not be a favour to women either.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be firmly and generally opposed to the noichl report, which is only a further step in the vast process of destroying the traditional family, despite a facade - i admit it - which would seem to be extremely consensual. as my two colleagues from the national front have pointed out, equality between men and women is only a pretext for this report, which is a real catch-all and gives the best of the gender ideology and its various avatars. otherwise, what would this paragraph about - i quote - "discrimination against transgender people" do? what would the "fight against harassment and prejudice against lgbti people in schools" do? there is a totalitarian desire to condition children from an early age, by making them integrate this dehumanized and materialistic conception of the person by reducing it to its sexuality. we are therefore fighting against this ideological dogmatism which is not only harmful and dangerous for the family structure but, ladies and gentlemen, which also violates the principle of subsidiarity, according to which the powers of each member state in the field of education and health must be respected.
mr president, at a time when the peoples of europe are being overwhelmed by migration and are sinking into economic stagnation, and geopolitical dangers are growing, this parliament seems to give priority to gender ideology and community demands. once again, under the guise of great universal principles, we are offered a most sectarian political manifesto to justify the destruction of natural and traditional institutions. it is the children who are targeted through assisted reproduction and the unrestrained promotion of abortion. more serious and shocking still: these positions are defended in the name of health and the fight against infertility, a pernicious argument seeking to generalize these practices of manipulation of life and insidiously opening the door to gestation on behalf of others, the last act of the suppression of filiation and the basic rights of the child. by claiming to defend women, you will turn the poorest of them into reproductive machines. so here is the true face of decadence organized in the name of a liberal libertarian utopia.
madam president, women spend twice as much time as men on housework and childcare, their pay is always lower than that of men, their rights are regularly called into question and one third of them have already suffered sexual and physical violence. this is the situation of women in the european union today. abortion, lmp for all couples, sex education, reform of maternity leave are all advanced solutions to combat inequality and prejudice! in this respect, maria noichl's text is a progressive text. perhaps a little too progressive for some, since an alternative resolution is tabled by the epp group and this resolution reviews fundamental advances for women: no reference to gender equality, no budgetary commitments, no reference to abortion. in short, there are so many setbacks for women, even on one of the most clearly identified issues: the employment of women and their working conditions. conservatives who deny women full control over their sexual and reproductive rights are manipulating and misinforming. they use ldc and abortion as a pretext to justify their refusal to improve the status of women and their integration into the working world. while women are increasingly present in the labour market, inequalities remain widespread: wages are lower than those of men, jobs are less skilled, women have fewer responsibilities and more part-time work. in addition, the unemployment rate for women remains higher than that for men, especially when they have dependent children. even in a couple, access to work is still the best barrier against poverty. finally, women in the labour market are more likely to be disqualified than men because, even with a high degree, many of them take up a job that does not correspond to their training. that is why a european union strategy on equality is needed and why it is desirable and welcome that this report proposes the introduction of more flexible forms of work, so that men and women can better reconcile work and family life. after the vote on the tarabella report, let us hope that this report will be another step forward for the european union in the field of women's rights.
in writing. the noichl report, drawn up by the committee on women's rights and gender equality, is in line with the estrella, tarabella and panzeri reports which the european parliament has been drawing attention to in recent years. the victimization of women in these reports serves a deadly ideology whose real purpose is to de-feminize women, to take away their essence. the noichl report prefers to reduce women to a productive capital, to a mere economic data subject whose feminine attributes - her role as a mother and her essential differences with men - must be stripped away if she is to become truly productive. the report also calls for the adoption of a european strategy for the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the noichl report is therefore an affront to the dignity of women and of nations.
in writing. this 'strategy' is a catch-all that mixes gender theory, interference in the affairs of the member states, interference in the life of households, but, let us stress, some good ideas deserve to be supported. it is commendable and necessary to protect women by fighting harassment, forced prostitution and the unfair dismissal of pregnant women. it is honorable and more than necessary to protect young girls from female genital mutilation, early and forced marriage and all the other abuses to which they are subjected. but the 'strategy' does not stop there and encourages, interspersed, immigration and communalism, gender theory and the establishment of quotas. the commission is overstepping its bounds and encouraging the union to take the place of the member states in decision-making, even to the point of interfering in our homes by asking men to take part in more housework. when are we gonna have a check-up to see who's cleaning and ironing? what is needed to correct the deviations is to return to the values that were ours: to re-establish the notions of respect, merit and work, and above all to insist on freedom of choice.
mr president, twenty ngos have just knocked on the door of the european forum on alcohol and health. they blame the commission for abandoning the european alcohol strategy, which was launched in 2006. many meps want to revive this strategy. i don't agree with them. it is certainly important to combat alcoholism, in particular by developing a prevention policy for young people, but i believe that it is up to the states, not the union, to do so. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, each member state is in a better position than the union to strike an appropriate balance between the fight against alcoholism and the protection of its wine-growing traditions. it is the safeguarding of his sovereignty. i therefore welcome the commission's step back and hope that it is only the first of a long series.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr van baalen, thank you for accepting my question. i am afraid that i am not part of what you call the credible forces in the european parliament, because i am less severe towards russia than most of the members of this parliament. you said something very interesting, however, and you stressed the need to get rid of a totally negative attitude towards russia and to cooperate with russian civil society. you're right to be concerned about this cooperation. but do you think we can cooperate with russian civil society if we practice an embargo?
mr president, unfortunately the work of our colleague mr landsbergis provides us with yet another example of this house's blindness to responsibility in the ukraine crisis. the catalogue of untruths is impressive, and i will give only an excerpt here. firstly, the georgian crisis of 2008 for which russia is blamed, whereas in 2009 the report of the independent international commission, headed by the swiss diplomat heidi tagliavini and funded by the european union, established that georgia was responsible for the conflict. it also escaped mr landsbergis that the annexation of crimea and sevastopol to russia was the democratic expression of an overwhelming majority. i am ignoring the bias in the report about the non-compliance with the minsk agreements. impartial observers agree that violations exist on both sides. when one reads a text that is so unconcerned with the truth, one can only worry about the dominance of the war party here, the war party that is relentlessly trampling on any hope of dialogue with russia. i therefore call on those who support peace in europe and dialogue with russia to reject this text, which is dangerous. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, to my knowledge there is no popular expression of the basque movement, there is no majority, there is no will in the basque country to achieve independence, at least on the french side. therefore, this subject is not appropriate. we must compare what is comparable: the case of crimea is not comparable at all to the situation in the basque part of france.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to create a reserve to support the agricultural sectors in the event of a crisis. however, this creation of a reserve implies a reduction in direct payments, i.e. aid paid under the common agricultural policy. the payment of these aids does not depend on production but on certain standards defined by the cap. the amount of this reserve is set at eur 441.6 million, whereas the cap funds have already been reduced by 20% in 15 years. this would be a further blow to our agriculture. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because this annual action is intended to respond to a possible agricultural crisis. it would then offer the european union a budgetary weapon to respond to a crisis that could hit a sector already very weakened by the russian embargo and the uncertainties of the climate and stock markets. however, despite this mechanism, the incomes of european farmers are still too unstable. in the years to come, this challenge will have to be met in the same way as the farm bild in the united states. i am in favour of the creation of an agricultural insurance fund.
in writing. this report deals with the creation of a reserve which can be used to support agricultural sectors in crisis. to do this, the commission wants to reduce direct payments, i.e. the funds farmers receive under the cap (common agricultural policy). direct payments are support to farmers in the form of income which is not linked to production but which depends on compliance with certain standards defined by the cap ("greening"). the amount of the reserve for crisis management in the agricultural sector is eur 441,6 million at current prices. the reserve is set at an adjustment rate for direct payments, which will mainly apply to those exceeding eur 2 000. this is not only insufficient but it is even more disadvantageous for farmers, since they are the ones who are punched. it is a false solution which has nothing to do with mutual aid because the amounts foreseen for the crisis reserve are taken from the farmers, legitimate aid which is dedicated to them. once again, farmers are paying the price for the inconsistency of the union's policy. it should be remembered that funds allocated to agriculture under the cap have already been reduced by 20% in 15 years. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for direct payments in respect of calendar year 2015 should make it possible to set up a reserve to be used in case of crisis to support the agricultural sectors. however, the creation of this reserve of eur 441.6 million will be offset by a reduction in direct payments, i.e. the aid farmers receive under the cap. this is bad for our farmers because we are actually reducing their aid without any additional support. this sad fact is only the result of european agricultural policies which have reduced the funds allocated to farmers by 20% in 15 years, a drop which particularly affects my country, france. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for direct payments in respect of calendar year 2015. under the guise of common sense, this measure conceals the union's difficulty in responding to the problems of the citizens of the member states. the effect of this proposal will be to reduce the direct payments required by the common agricultural policy. let us be clear: we are being asked to take money from farmers and give it back to them in another form. this is much more like a communication measure than a real measure, because this proposal, behind a striking and misleading effect, will not produce any of the expected effects.
in writing. ‒ the agricultural sector is particularly sensitive and exposed to the various cyclical changes. in order to anticipate and be able to cope with the occurrence of a major crisis in this sector, it was proposed to set up a crisis reserve. this reserve will be established through a reduction of direct payments of 1,393041% for the calendar year 2015 for all member states except bulgaria, croatia and romania. in the event of a crisis, this reserve will be mobilised to enable farmers to continue their activities. i voted in favour of this report, which is a sign of european solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments for the year 2015. the objective may seem to be a good one in itself: to create a reserve of funds to support the agricultural sectors in crisis. i am very attached to french agriculture and could have supported such an initiative if it had not been intended to finance such support by the farmers themselves, cutting off from them, in particular, the aid which is currently dedicated to them and which they greatly need. the proposal for a regulation provides for a reduction in the aid provided for by the cap. the funds allocated to agriculture under the common agricultural policy have already been reduced by 20% in 15 years. under the guise of a equalization mechanism, this proposal for a regulation will in fact lead to the commission cutting farmers off from direct payments. it will now be up to the latter to pay the price that brussels has left them with through its suicidal austerity policy.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for a reduction of direct payments of 1,393041% in all member states, except bulgaria, croatia and romania, amounting to eur 441,6 million, through budgetary discipline mechanisms to support the crisis reserve for 2016. this reserve is intended to be used to support the agricultural sector in the event of a major crisis. nevertheless, it is worth asking whether it is normal that farmers, who are currently victims on all markets and throughout the year of a crisis of mainly diplomatic origin, should still be harmed the following year when the aid is regulated. i believe that farmers are entitled to expect solidarity from the european institutions. weighing all these factors carefully and taking into account the importance of having a functional reserve in a context of multiple crises and risks to the dairy sector following the abolition of quotas, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. support for the agricultural sector is a pillar of the european union. budgetary mechanisms have been put in place to deal with unforeseen crises. this is the case of the crisis reserve, which is made up of an amount taken from the annual envelope of direct payments to farmers. in this vote, we approved at first reading the fixing of the adjustment rate at 1.39% of the amount of direct payments for the year 2015. the reserve thus constituted amounts to more than eur 441 million. the funds not spent at the end of the year will be returned to farmers in the form of direct payments.
in writing. ‒ in order to support the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting agricultural production or distribution, the european union has set up a crisis reserve by applying a reduction in direct payments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. however, this reduction will not apply to bulgaria, romania and croatia, where the agricultural sector needs more active support from the union. the outermost regions of the union, due to their geographical and insular character, will also continue to benefit from an exemption.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for direct payments in respect of calendar year 2015. under the guise of common sense, this measure conceals the union's difficulty in responding to the problems of the citizens of the member states. it suggests that the agricultural sector's problems can be solved by reaching out to help withdraw it. the proposal actually consists of a reduction in the direct payments required by the common agricultural policy. let us be clear: we are being asked to take money from farmers and give it back to them in another form. this is much more like a communication measure than a real measure, because this proposal, behind a striking and misleading effect, is very useless.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it does not take sufficient account of the interests of french and european farmers, who are particularly affected by the consequences of the russian embargo.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because it tends to reduce the direct payments to farmers under the cap. these direct payments have two advantages. on the one hand, they encourage farmers to use better practices for the environment and consumer health. there is a 'green payment', or greening, which aims to reward specific actions in favour of the environment, by improving the environmental performance of agriculture in terms of biodiversity, protection of water resources and the fight against climate change. in france, the green payment represents 30% of total direct payments. on the other hand, as direct payments are not linked to production, they protect farmers against fluctuations in market prices. in principle, this reduction is intended to create a reserve of eur 441.6 million to support the agricultural sectors in crisis. however, the planned adjustment rate will reduce direct payments to farmers who receive more than eur 2 000. in the end, this reserve, which is normally intended to deal with agricultural crises, will weaken some farmers by reducing their incomes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which harms french farmers by reducing direct payments, which are very valuable. on the one hand, they encourage farmers to use better practices for the environment and consumer health. there is a 'green payment', or greening, which aims to reward specific actions in favour of the environment, by improving the environmental performance of agriculture in terms of biodiversity, protection of water resources and the fight against climate change. in france, the green payment represents 30% of total direct payments. on the other hand, as direct payments are not linked to production, they protect farmers against fluctuations in market prices. in principle, this reduction is intended to create a reserve of eur 441.6 million to support the agricultural sectors in crisis. however, the planned adjustment rate will reduce direct payments to farmers who receive more than eur 2000. in the end, this reserve, which is normally intended to deal with agricultural crises, will weaken some farmers by reducing their incomes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague czesław siekierski on the adjustment rates for direct payments in 2015. in order to deal with any major crises in the agricultural sector, a reserve for these exceptional situations is set up at the beginning of each year. to fill this reserve, a reduced rate of direct payments is applied. this year the reduction rate was set at 1.393041%. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments for the year 2015. in the face of the russian embargo, the union must apply financial discipline in order to preserve the crisis reserve for european farmers. the 1.4% decrease will affect farmers only slightly and only direct payments of eur 2 000 and above.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for a regulation because it reduces the direct payments farmers receive under the cap, under the pretext of creating a reserve fund. the sums allocated to agriculture under the cap have already fallen by 20% in 15 years, so it is regrettable to reduce them further. this is all the more critical given the difficult situation many farmers are in, particularly because of two decisions by the union concerning the end of milk quotas and the embargo against russia.
in writing. - i voted against it. the purpose of this proposal for a european parliament regulation is to create a reserve to support agricultural sectors in crisis. to this end, the commission wants to reduce direct payments, i.e. the funds farmers receive under the cap. the amount of this reserve is eur 441,6 million at current prices. for the purpose of establishing the community, an adjustment rate for direct payments is fixed. it will mainly apply to those above eur 2 000. this is not only insufficient but it is even more disadvantageous for farmers, since they are the ones who are punched. this is a false solution which has nothing to do with mutual aid because the amounts foreseen for the crisis reserve are taken from the farmers, legitimate aid which is intended for them. once again, farmers are paying the price for the inconsistency of the european union's policy, especially since these funds have already been reduced by 20% in 15 years and it is therefore inappropriate to reduce them further.
in writing. - i voted against the motion. it provides for the creation of a reserve which would be used to support agricultural sectors in crisis. the commission estimates that the amount needed to make this reserve available for crisis management is eur 441.6 million. to make up this reserve, the european commission intends to reduce direct payments, income support received by farmers under the common agricultural policy. we are firmly opposed to this measure, which is inadequate and handicaps farmers who are deprived of some of their legitimate aid.
in writing. ‒ this is a reserve to provide additional support to the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting production or distribution. it is established by applying, at the beginning of each financial year, a reduction in direct payments. the amount of the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector, which is planned to be included in the commission's preliminary draft budget for 2016, amounts to eur 441,6 million. to achieve this, the share of direct payments in 2015 will be reduced by 1.393041%. it is a technical adjustment, but it deprives farmers of part of the expected payments so that they may one day have a reserve for a crisis. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls for the creation of an agricultural reserve to support agricultural sectors in the event of a crisis. however, this creation of a reserve implies a reduction in direct payments, i.e. aid paid under the cap. this aid is not dependent on production but on certain standards defined by the cap. the amount of this reserve is set at eur 441.6 million. it should be remembered that the cap funds have already been reduced by 20% in 15 years. this would be another blow to our agriculture. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to create a reserve which can be used to support agricultural sectors in crisis. to make up this reserve, the commission wants to reduce the direct payments, which farmers receive under the cap. not only is this measure inadequate, but it is even more disadvantageous for farmers, since it is they who are punched. it is a false solution which has nothing to do with mutual aid because the amounts foreseen for the crisis reserve are taken from the farmers, legitimate aid which is dedicated to them. once again, farmers are paying the price for the inconsistency of the union's policy. the funds allocated to agriculture under the cap have already been reduced by 20% in 15 years, and it is therefore inappropriate to reduce them further.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for direct payments in respect of calendar year 2015 aims to set up a reserve to be used in the event of a crisis to support the agricultural sectors. however, the creation of this reserve is counterbalanced by a reduction in direct payments, i.e. the aid farmers receive under the cap. this reserve would be endowed with eur 441,6 million. however, this provision is not only insufficient but also harmful to farmers, since it is a matter of reducing the amount of their aid without additional support funds. it thus allows the union to cast a modest veil over the consequences of its disastrous agricultural policy, in particular the 20% decline in funds allocated to farmers over 15 years. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which specifies the modalities for setting up a reserve for supporting the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting production or distribution. this reserve is created by applying a reduction to direct payments to be granted to farmers during the year. according to regulation (eu) no 306/2013 of the european parliament and of the council, an adjustment rate for direct payments is to be determined where the forecasts for the financing of measures for a given year indicate that the annual ceilings will be exceeded. the amount of the reserve as provided for in the commission's preliminary draft budget for 2016 is eur 441,6 million. the adjustment rate of 1.39% proposed by the commission was adopted. it will apply to direct payments exceeding eur 2 000 granted to farmers for aid applications submitted under the calendar year 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report, in the light of the opinion of the european economic and social committee, the commitment given by the council representative on 1 june 2015 to endorse parliament's position and the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the adjustment rate for direct payments for 2015 because this legislation will support the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting production or distribution. a crisis reserve of eur 2.8 billion is therefore planned for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for direct payments in respect of calendar year 2015 aims to set up a reserve to be used in the event of a crisis to support the agricultural sectors. however, the creation of this reserve is counterbalanced by a reduction in direct payments, i.e. the aid farmers receive under the cap. this reserve would be endowed with eur 441,6 million. this is not only insufficient but is even harmful to farmers, since it means lowering the amount of their aid without additional support funds. it thus allows the union to cast a modest veil over the consequences of its disastrous agricultural policy, with a 20% reduction in funds allocated to farmers in 15 years. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ parliament revised the adjustment rate for direct payments to farmers for 2015 and agreed on a rate of 1.4% for aid applications submitted for calendar year 2015. i voted in favour of revising this rate, which will enable the commission to react better in the event of a crisis affecting the agricultural sector. it is important to be able to guarantee funds to farmers in the event of a crisis, especially at this time, given the russian embargo on certain european agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the commission's proposal without any amendments. this proposal concerns the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and, more specifically, the percentage of the adjustment rate for financial discipline for the year 2015. direct payments under aid schemes to a farmer are reduced by 1.39% in order to be able to supply and build up the reserve in case of crisis in the agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ under the guise of equality between men and women, the noichl report is in reality a homosexual propaganda text that takes up the most radical demands of the lgbti community ("lesbien-gay-bi-trans-intersexuals"). in addition, the promotion of lmp and gpa, the polite term for surrogate mothers, as well as the promotion of the rights of minorities and immigrants. the spread of gender ideology is also present in this report, without any obvious link to the title of the report. with my colleagues in the front national, i am a tireless defender of the traditional family values which are the foundation of our identity. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this text. it is an own-initiative report with no legal basis, like a catalogue of good intentions, some of which go against my convictions. i consider that my mandate in the european parliament has three objectives: the first is to take part in the drafting and voting of normative texts, the second is to monitor and evaluate the policies pursued by the european union, and the third is to advance the institutions of the european union towards federalism. many of the texts put to the vote are charming but have no real meaning. the european parliament does not emerge from this kind of debate, for which the union has no competence, as a grown-up.
in writing. ‒ i supported maria noichl's own-initiative report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015 because the current situation shows that equality between men and women is not a concrete reality. it is important to propose actions to put an end to discrimination against women and to strengthen their place and representation in society. this would include, for example, measures to provide equal opportunities in the labour market in terms of pay and reconciling family and working life. i voted for this resolution because we must send a message to the commission that it should push for an ambitious policy in this area.
in writing. estrella, lunacek, tarabella, panzeri, noichl... these relationships follow one another and resemble each other: again and again the promotion of gender ideology, that of the so-called lgbti ("lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals... and intersexuals"), that of ultra-communitarian minorities who fiercely deny the natural differences and complementarities between men and women.
in writing. ‒ the report proposed by maria noichl on the eu strategy for equality between men and women contains good elements, although there is still a lot of progress to be made on equal pay or reconciliation between private and professional life. however, it is totally unacceptable in other respects, especially when it no longer hesitates to deviate from certain principles on gender theory, minorities or sex education. moreover, this report does not respect the principle of subsidiarity at all and de facto encroaches on the prerogatives of the member states. thus, policies on abortion and contraception or sexual education are not within the competence of the european union and therefore have no place in this report. the text also deals with considerations of ethnic minorities such as the roma and makes ldcs an individual right, which i strongly oppose. that is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. this report is a fabric of far-left stereotypes. we must not be fooled by the communitarian vision he proposes. the report is dangerous both in its desire to facilitate access for migrants to the member states and in its promotion of gender theory. the various arguments raised deserve particular attention and it is therefore regrettable that they have been drowned in a mass of incoherence. the issue of discrimination against women in europe must be given serious thought and not be swept away so quickly by the majority in power.
in writing. ‒ we must ensure that the principle of equality between men and women is respected in all member states. a european union strategy for equality between women and men in line with the principle of subsidiarity is needed. i voted for the alternative resolution by the epp group, while expressing my support for the importance of access to abortion and contraception for all and for sexual and reproductive rights. however, certain paragraphs in the initial report were unacceptable to me, deliberately flouting the principle of subsidiarity and respect for the competences of the member states. i therefore abstained on the noichl report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which, tinged with ideology, develops a miserable conception of women. the latter is perceived as a member of an oppressed community which must be liberated by work, the dignity of women being, in this respect, conditioned by their productive capacities in the labour market. i'm also concerned about the gender-theoretical logic inherent in this report: sex education classes, pro-lgbt propaganda, promotion of pma, abortion, etc. these are the deadly 'progress' envisaged by mrs noichl's text and which, moreover, trample on the competence of the member states since family and health policies are excluded from the union's competence under article 4-2 of the feu treaty. the introduction of a quota policy is also envisaged to put women at the head of enterprises, as if they could not rise to such positions by their own competence alone. because i am a strong advocate of women's dignity, i will continue to fight against the denial of it that is triggered by the processes of gender uniformity through pure militant dogmatism.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the european parliament's contribution to the european commission's reflection on the forthcoming development and presentation of a new eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. i support the proposals in this report on combating violence against women or wage inequality, women's vulnerability to poverty, unemployment and discrimination. however, the report also touches on issues which fall within the competence of the member states and which, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, cannot be decided at eu level, namely the issues of reproductive and sexual rights, abortion and the promotion of assisted reproduction. the epp had proposed an alternative resolution which i supported because it respected the division of powers between the union and the member states as laid down in the european treaties, but which did not receive a majority of the votes. i therefore voted against the report for the reasons already mentioned.
in writing. i voted against this report which, once again, takes the fundamental subject of equality between women and men hostage to deal with other subjects, in defiance of the principle of subsidiarity. the text, which has no binding legal force, encourages member states to promote assisted reproduction and to amend their national family laws. these are matters for the member states, not the european union. i was therefore unable to support such a text.
in writing. ‒ this report identifies the objectives that the commission will have to pursue in the area of equality between men and women for the period after 2015. there is still too much discrimination against women in the member states, particularly in access to decision-making positions, the labour market and education. these discriminations must be corrected quickly. the european union must be attentive to the particular situations of single mothers, elderly women and women with disabilities and must be uncompromising in its fight against violence against women, the perpetrators of which must be firmly condemned by the member states. finally, in the field of health, the union must ensure that there is greater access to contraceptives and to safe and legal iuds. while legislative and regulatory policy on reproductive health is the responsibility of the member states, the union can bring added value, including through the sharing of positive experiences and best practices in the health programmes and policies of the member states and candidate countries.
in writing. ‒ once again, i regret that on the occasion of an important text on equality between men and women beyond 2015, some political groups are using the european parliament as a forum and therefore introducing paragraphs on topics that are not within the competence of meps. unfortunately, this attitude leads to a split in the votes of parliament on a matter which would have required unanimity! i did not want to block this text, which contained many good elements such as the fight against violence against women and stereotypes, the promotion of equality at all levels, the development of women's entrepreneurship and the reduction of wage gaps, but i could not support it either because of the non-respect of the principle of subsidiarity, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am one of the 341 meps who voted in favour of the maria noichl report because i believe that despite some social, cultural, political and economic achievements, the place and representation of women in our european societies is still too fragile and deserves to be strengthened. while the question of violence against women is still a matter for the states, a proactive policy of the union is also needed, for example, in the field of violence against women. some people have tried to drag us into a fruitless debate on the question of the introduction of lmp for homosexual couples, something on which the adopted text makes absolutely no statement. the epp's attempt to empty the text of all its substance by tabled ing an alternative resolution was also foiled. after the adoption last march of the annual report on the progress (or lack thereof) of equality between men and women by marc tarabella, this vote is another step in favour of women's rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. this report is a thinly disguised mixture of amalgamations, stereotypes and europeanist ideology. he scatters some sensible and acceptable points to give credibility to the whole. we must not be fooled by the communitarian vision he proposes. both in its desire to promote access for migrants to the member states and in its promotion of the gender theory, this report is far from being reasonable. the various arguments raised deserve special attention, and it is regrettable that they have been drowned in a mass of incoherence. the issue of discrimination against women in europe must be given serious thought and not be swept away so quickly by the majority in power.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because, while i believe that strict equal pay should be established between men and women, this text does not take account of the complementarities between the two and is part of an ideological framework of 'protection of minorities'.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday, 9 june, the european parliament voted in plenary on the report by mrs noichl on the european union's strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. a few details to clear up any misunderstandings: this is a non-binding report. the european parliament does not adopt a directive or a regulation having legal effects. it gives guidance; these matters remain the responsibility of the member states. so we must not exaggerate its significance. it is because it is somewhat "out of the subject" that i abstained; however, gender equality is a major topic: equal pay, access to education, non-violence, the fight against discrimination and poverty. i agree with many of the report's points on these points, although i do not agree with all of them.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 9 june, i abstained on the vote on the text on the european union strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. although i strongly support the need to develop women's entrepreneurship, reduce the wage gap and combat violence against women, at home and in the workplace, some of the objectives were caricatured or even unrealistic and some provisions undermined family values, which are nevertheless covered by the principle of subsidiarity. on this point, i would like to stress that the epp group tabled an alternative resolution which was in line with our moral and ethical values and which respected the principle of subsidiarity. unfortunately, it was rejected.
in writing. there is a reality we cannot deny: women are still paid less than men for the same job, are discriminated against in the labour market and at retirement, are more at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and do not have access to health services in the event of an abortion. faced with this reality, europe can and must respond, showing ambition to finally advance their rights. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which calls in particular for a directive to combat violence against women, for a lasting reduction in the gender gap in pay and pensions, for the reduction of stereotypes through targeted education, for specific actions for all women in the world who are subject to various forms of discrimination, and for measures to reconcile private and professional life. far from calling into question the principles of subsidiarity, this non-legislative resolution proposes concrete actions to put an end to discrimination. it is therefore a question of implementing the treaties at the heart of which is equality between women and men.
in writing. ‒ once again, the real debate on equal treatment between women and men has been fed by groups on the left of the political spectrum who, instead of focusing on the factors of inequality and promoting initiatives such as the fight against stereotypes and the promotion of women's entrepreneurship, have been busy pitting supporters and opponents of the wfp against each other. it is regrettable to note that in every debate on such central subjects, on which there is much to be said, these groups upset the balance in defiance of the principle of subsidiarity and above all try to impose an ideology that is far from being shared by all. i see above all that these systematic manoeuvres succeed in making citizens more nervous and in playing the game of those who denounce the omnipresence of the european union in their choice of life.
in writing. ‒ the noichl report illustrates the societal drift that the union is encouraging. under the guise of gender equality, it promotes lgbti propaganda, the use of pma and gpa. this report uses the excuse of fighting gender equality as a means to promote the rights of minorities and immigrants. i stand for the values of the traditional family. i am, like the majority of french people, unable to imagine the new concept of the family proposed by the noichl report. this completely wrong view of the family, as well as the lgbti propaganda that the noichl report defends, is unbearable to me and that is why i voted against the noichl report.
in writing. i abstained on the report by my colleague maria noichl on gender equality after 2015. although equality between women and men must be encouraged, this report had taken on a maximalist and ideological character which made it unrealistic and above all which infringed the principle of subsidiarity which is the basis of family policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the european union strategy for equality between women and men after 2015 because, although the fight for equality between women and men is a priority for the european union, it should not be used as an excuse to contravene the principle of subsidiarity by imposing measures on abortion, which is not a topic that should be in this debate. the european union must focus on challenges within its competence, such as ensuring equal pay for men and women or combating all forms of discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the noichl report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. by addressing issues of family policy, ethics, and societal issues such as the rights of homosexual couples, this report, which was supposed to present the european parliament's proposals in the context of the 'new eu strategy for equality between men and women post-2015', was in fact encroaching too widely on the competences of the member states, thus violating the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i chose to reject the noichl report and to vote in favour of the alternative resolution tabled by the epp group. the commission proposed a concrete strategy to promote equality between women and men effectively within the european union. the reduction of wage inequalities, the improvement of women's access to positions of responsibility in both the political and business worlds, the free access of young girls to the training of their choice, but also the need to strengthen the fight against violence against women, were at the heart of this alternative resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on gender equality takes stock of the inequalities faced by women in europe: wages, work, participation in decision-making processes, whether in business or in politics, access to health, culture, education. the report calls on the european commission to take concrete action to reduce these differences, with clear objectives to follow. for the moment, we are left with grand declarations, while real progress, for example on maternity leave, remains pending. the question of balancing family and work life is also discussed. the european parliament also calls for better protection against violence against women. it also called for the ratification of the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. finally, he did not forget to mention that women are the first victims of the crisis and that the result can be a "feminization" of poverty, which favours the most violent exploitation. i therefore supported this text which gives a full account of the problems facing women in our societies and, above all, calls for concrete progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it takes advantage of its laudable objective of ensuring equality between men and women to devote itself to the gender theory, which i am opposed to. it also wants to impose anti-lgbti prejudice education in schools; i believe that, as far as young children are concerned, this should be the sole responsibility of the families. finally, he wants to "promote assisted reproduction" in a way that is far too general, which leads me to believe that he is trying to open it up to single people as well, whereas in france it is reserved for couples. unfortunately, this report was voted by a very small majority. the fn vote was a consolation, however, as it led to the rejection of an amendment which sought to create "gender chairs" in universities.
in writing. - i voted against it. at first sight, the aim of this report is to combat violence and discrimination against women. i am in favour of certain aspects (fighting harassment, forced prostitution, unfair dismissal of pregnant women, forced marriages, female genital mutilation, marital rape, etc.), but the commission is taking the opportunity to facilitate the right of asylum, help women from ethnic minorities, extend certain rights to people according to their sexual preferences, etc. it is therefore a community policy. moreover, the european union is continuing its interference, since it wants to give itself the right to adjust its financial aid according to the respect of the rights it wants to defend. interference that even interferes in schools where gender theory will be explained with the intervention of lgbt associations in front of students. the same will to promote assisted reproduction and abortion. however, it does not contain any reference to certain practices related to islam (stoning). this document is used as a pretext to promote an ideology, not women's rights.
in writing. - i voted against it. although this report has some positive aspects - the fight against female genital mutilation, child, early or forced marriage, forced sterilisation, marital rape, protection of pregnant workers, the fight against harassment, etc. - it also has serious negative aspects and goes far beyond the legitimate provisions of the european union. it encourages immigration and communalism by differentiating women's groups; it imposes gender theory by introducing 'good practice' sex education in schools; it encourages assisted reproduction "for all", despite the outrageous cost to the taxpayer. the report even interferes with the privacy of households by proposing to encourage men to participate more in domestic work, a flagrant invasion of the privacy of households. all these deviations lead us to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ more than just a symbol, ms noichl's resolution presents concrete and clear-cut ideas for the implementation of a new eu strategy for equality between women and men for the period 2015-2020. the text adopted does not have binding force on the member states under the community treaties, but its aim is to influence national practices in a way that i welcome. it gives priority to the fight against violence against women, while taking account of new forms of harassment. it sets as its main objective the fight against inequalities between men and women in such crucial areas as the level of wages and pensions. it also promotes new approaches to reconciling work and private life (increased number of places in day-care centres, parental leave). as a socialist, i will of course vote in favour!
in writing. ‒ the text calls on the commission to 'develop and adopt a new separate strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe'. the proposals are aimed at combating gender-based violence, promoting equal pay and guaranteeing sexual and reproductive rights, such as the right to abortion or assisted reproduction. i am defending this text against the reactionary forces that seek to undermine it. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the noichl report is a text which, under the guise of equality between men and women, promotes the aims of a few very militant minorities who for ideological reasons disregard the views of the silent majority. while it is true that the special cases of transsexuals must be taken into account in the best possible way in the medical and social field, other proposals cannot be accepted by law so far. even if the fight against violence and discrimination against women is moving in the right direction, some proposals are a combination of bad ideas. i voted against it because it was a militant project.
in writing. ‒ the noichl report calls on the commission to recognise all the deviations linked to gender theory and communitarianism, under the guise of combating discrimination and violence against women, in particular. some proposals are absurdly angelic, in particular measures to help migrants, roma, ethnic minorities, the imposition of gender theory in schools, the promotion of ldcs, etc. it is noteworthy that there is no reference to discrimination and violence linked to islam in this motion for a resolution, which is surprising to say the least. the necessary fight against violence and discrimination is not helped by this militant text, which certainly cannot be supported.
in writing. the noichl report includes some commendable objectives, including the promotion of equal pay between men and women, the increase in the participation rate of women, access to employment for pregnant women, etc. however, other aspects are at least objectionable. the report intends to make ldcs an individual right, thus leading to a 'children's right' which i cannot support. it also includes comments on the situation of ethnic minorities such as the roma who have little to do with the subject. considering that this text concerns areas of competence which fall within the full sovereignty of the member states, and denying the european union and its institutions the possibility of legislating on societal matters out of respect for the principle of subsidiarity, i have decided to vote against. ‬
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the strategy for equality between women and men in the european union after 2015. although equality between women and men is one of my priorities, this report contains measures which, by their unrealistic nature, ultimately penalise the progress of women's rights. on the other hand, i voted for the alternative resolution tabled by my political group, which proposes concrete objectives to develop female entrepreneurship and reduce the gender pay gap, still over 16%. the epp resolution also calls on the european institutions and the member states to take urgent action against violence against women, whether in the family or in the workplace, and to combat stereotypes that reproduce inequalities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the noichl report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. we must all work for equality between women and men, both in private life and in professional life, and throughout life. there are too many pay gaps in employment and career that make women poor. the european union must be the guarantor and the driving force behind equality of citizens and the representation of women in all spheres of society, in accordance with the european charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted resolutely against this text. i am of course in favour of equality between men and women, but the tendency of the left to want to include in this type of resolution provisions which are not relevant and which are the responsibility of the national authorities is unbearable. my position is clear: as long as provisions (such as the lmp) which are part of the national debate are found in the texts on equality between men and women, i will oppose them.
in writing. this report presents parliament's position in the context of the preparation of a new european commission strategy on women's rights and gender equality. the report calls for concrete action on issues such as violence against women, discrimination in the workplace, reconciliation of family and working life, the role of the media, the place of women in leadership positions, in education, in institutions and in external relations. in addition to these aspects, the report mentions the importance of sexual and reproductive rights, including abortion and lgbt rights. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report proposed by maria noichl contains some good elements, because it is true that there is still much to be done on such important and concrete issues as wages, reconciliation of private and professional life or access to employment for pregnant women. however, it is totally unacceptable in many other respects. firstly, it does not respect the principle of subsidiarity and blatantly infringes the prerogatives of the member states and even of third countries. the european union is not responsible for policies on abortion and contraception or sexual education and therefore has no place in this report. the text also mixes in considerations about ethnic minorities such as the roma and makes ldcs an individual right, thus creating a right to the child that i cannot support. it presents a very materialistic view of the matter, aimed at making women as menial employees as men are unfortunately. that is why i am strongly opposed to this report.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the objectives of the beijing platform for action and the deadline for the millennium development goals, progress in gender equality will be reassessed worldwide. in this context, the european union has published a new strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. at this plenary session, meps adopted the commission's proposal. i voted against this report because i believe that it touches upon matters which are within the competence of the member states. i would like to stress in particular that the elements concerning sexual and reproductive rights and sexual education fall within the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote on the maria noichl report which calls on the commission to develop a european strategy for equality between women and men for the next five years. women still suffer from widespread discrimination in terms of pay and pensions and are more at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the physical and moral violence against women remains a worrying reality, including on the internet and social networks. stereotypes against them persist, especially in the media. the report calls for a directive to combat violence against women, for an end to discrimination in the labour market and for the elimination of stereotypes through education. the text also recommends measures to improve the balance between private and professional life, in particular by rethinking parental leave. finally, it addresses the essential issue of sexual and reproductive health and rights, proposing sex education programmes in schools, while advocating access to safe and legal abortion and the promotion of assisted reproduction in the member states.
in writing. ‒ women spend twice as much time as men on household chores and childcare; their pay is always lower than that of men; their rights, such as abortion, are regularly called into question; and finally, a third of them have already been sexually or physically abused... this is the situation of women in the european union. the report by maria noichl is a progressive text and proposes many solutions to combat inequalities, such as the introduction of more flexible forms of work so that men and women can better reconcile work and family life. it suggests that parental leave be shared between both parents but with strong incentives for fathers, such as non-transferable parental leave. the report also proposes the introduction of mandatory quotas to ensure greater representation of women in decision-making, the guarantee of access to abortion and the promotion of assisted reproduction, all of which could be the starting point for a new push by the european union for women's rights. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to provide the european parliament with a contribution to the european commission's preparation of a new eu strategy for equality between women and men after 2015. it is important that efforts and actions are made to achieve genuine equality between men and women and we have always made this a priority. to do this, the commission's new strategy must take account of the central role of the member states in pursuing this objective. however, i chose to abstain on the final vote on this report because it contains good elements such as the fight against violence against women and support for women's participation in decision-making and entrepreneurship. however, some of the provisions of this text fall within the competence of the member states and not of the european union.
in writing. ‒ there is unanimous support for women in their task of ensuring the delicate balance between their family and professional lives. it is also vital to commit ourselves to defending the rights of the most vulnerable human beings, often in situations of dependence, such as children, the elderly or the disabled. however, as you read the proposals, how can you not be struck by the terrible contradictions that mark this report, particularly between its aims and the means it recommends to achieve them? it should be explained how it is possible to defend women by advocating gender theory and gender indifference or how it is possible to defend the lives of the most vulnerable by defending abortion as an inalienable right. how is it possible to defend the balance of the family by destroying its very conception and natural definition? the good intentions of all are held hostage by intellectual theories that are scurrilous and above all disconnected from reality. the report will therefore do no one any good and will only fuel the voters' disgust with the european institutions if they do not rid themselves of certain deadly ideologies. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this report on the european union strategy for equality between women and men. it is a good report, fairly comprehensive, and covers many of the issues that need to be addressed, such as violence against women, access to financial resources, education and health, and equal pay. it also takes up some very interesting points put forward by my group on the consequences of austerity policies on women. i also want to denounce the attempts by the right wing of this house to empty the text of its content, particularly in the area of reproductive rights and the fight against violence against women. i also denounce the national front, which has been particularly virulent in the debates on both the right to abortion and the fight against discrimination and harassment of lgbti people. they failed, and i congratulate myself. i regret, however, that the paragraph on gender studies and feminist research was rejected by a few votes. i voted for this report but i remain convinced that much more needs to be done for women's rights in europe, for solidarity and for equality for all.
in writing. ‒ the diagnosis made in this report is relevant but the solutions are inadequate. it is noted that european competitiveness is based on creativity and innovation and that, therefore, this creativity should be developed by improving the protection of intellectual property rights. at present, the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights is very long and costly, especially for smes. counterfeiting, which used to be mainly for luxury goods, is now also found in consumer goods. but the solutions proposed in this report are not appropriate. the creation of a european supervisory body would be costly and unnecessary. on the contrary, intergovernmental cooperation should be given priority and the economic interests of the states should be defended, in particular through border controls. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, in a context of technological development and increasingly globalised and online trade, the european union needed to equip itself with a new arsenal to combat infringements of intellectual property rights in third countries. the strategy aims, inter alia, to help identify countries where there are weaknesses in the protection or respect of these rights.
in writing. the report rightly points out that intellectual property rights (ipr) are a major asset for the economies of the member states. but i voted against this text which seeks to transfer the protection of ipr to the commission: intellectual property belongs to the member states and the protection of rights related to it can only be done in the framework of intergovernmental cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries asks the right questions but gives the wrong answers. indeed, intellectual property rights (ipr) are a very important part of the strength of the european economy. moreover, smes are the first victims of counterfeiting. i can only approve of the desire to fight this disease better by legal means. however, the infringements of state sovereignty which this relationship entails are simply unacceptable. i very much regret the desire to strengthen european integration in this area, whereas the fight against counterfeiting is most effective at national level and in the control of the external and internal borders of the european union. the creation of another european body would be costly and unnecessary. there is also a major risk of a strengthening of the dispute settlement logic. for all these reasons, i can only vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. while special attention should be paid to smes, which are increasingly faced with illegal competition, the solutions proposed in this report will not in any way stem this phenomenon. the effectiveness of the fight against counterfeiting depends in fact on the control of our national borders. how can we expect to manage the flow of goods from a territory if it is penetrated from all sides? the only solution to safeguard the quality of french products, their value and thus the survival of their manufacturers, would be to identify the origin of counterfeiting and to have the possibility of stopping it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. this report is parliament's support for the european commission's intention to revise this strategy. we must protect our technology and our innovative sectors in our trade relations with third countries. it is important to adapt to new global challenges which are profoundly changing the context of intellectual property rights. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which, while it mentions the real and concrete problems of infringements of intellectual property rights, in particular the increased possibilities of counterfeiting via online sales platforms, is totally wrong about the solutions to this problem. the european union is once again using real problems to increase its powers to the detriment of the member states and the interests of their citizens. the report advocates, along these lines, the integration of international standards promoted by the wto in the field of ipr, including the principle of dispute settlement mechanism - the famous idea that leads to the establishment of private courts allowing multinationals to sue states (as provided for in the ttip). more importantly, the report calls for the strengthening of european integration in this area through enhanced cooperation led by the commission. the best way to combat counterfeiting is to ensure control of the european union's borders, and only intergovernmental cooperation would allow us to be truly efficient in this.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's position on the european commission's communication of july 2014 on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. this communication was adopted in the context of the political and legal situation created by the rejection of the acta treaty in july 2012 and considers that the debate between intellectual property rights holders and end-users must lead to the necessary improvement and adequate harmonisation of internal european intellectual property rights policies with a view to improving protection and enforcement standards worldwide. i think that this is a necessary step and i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. intellectual property rights cover a range of legal instruments: copyrights, licenses, patents, registered trademarks and geographical indications. these are being converged within the internal market, but it is equally important to create common standards with our trading partners. this helps to ensure the quality of the products our consumers have access to by ensuring their traceability throughout the supply chain and by fighting against counterfeiting. this is why i support the commission's strategy on the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights, while inviting it to go further.
in writing. ‒ the protection of intellectual property is of paramount importance for europe. if we are to maintain our full capacity to innovate and create, and to maintain the technological and scientific advances necessary for the growth and competitiveness and know-how of our enterprises, we must act in three directions. firstly, the european union must ensure that existing commitments made with third countries are respected; to defend ourselves better in multilateral organisations; convince our partners that better protection of rights will boost the confidence of european businesses wishing to invest abroad. secondly, the union must have a more ambitious strategy for the defence of intellectual property rights in its negotiations for free trade agreements with third countries, in particular on the specific issue of geographical indications. thirdly, we must maintain a balance between the firm protection of intellectual property rights and our innovative industries on the one hand and development policy on the other. for example, within the wto, a system of licences targeted at vital medicines should be promoted to lower their price and to allow better access to them.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. of course, special attention should be paid to smes, which are increasingly faced with illegal competition. and they are now in all areas, not just luxury goods. however, the solutions proposed in this report will do nothing to stop this phenomenon. the management of counterfeits implies de facto control of our national borders. how can we expect to manage the flow of goods from a territory if it is penetrated from all sides? the only solution to safeguard the quality of french products, their value and thus the survival of their manufacturers is to identify the origin of counterfeiting and to be able to stop it. the union doesn't allow us to.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because, although i am particularly committed to the defence of property rights in general and intellectual property in particular, i do not want the european commission to take up this matter, which must remain the responsibility of the respective states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution by mrs alessia maria mosca on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. the report makes a clear statement: intellectual property rights determine a large part of the competitiveness of the european economy. the effectiveness of these rights depends on the fight against counterfeiting, which is increasingly extended to mass consumer products. in addition to economic aspects, the fight against counterfeiting is also a major public health and safety issue. it is therefore necessary to sanction infringements of intellectual property rights. i am opposed to the delegation of the definition and application of these sanctions to international organizations which have not demonstrated their effectiveness. in reality, only member states are capable of effectively defending the intellectual property rights of their enterprises. to this end, they must be free to control their frontiers and to punish themselves for infringements of intellectual property rights, even if they take the necessary measures against third states which allow counterfeiting to develop for export to their territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution by mrs alessia maria mosca on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. it is true that intellectual property rights determine a large part of the competitiveness of the european economy. the effectiveness of these rights depends on the fight against counterfeiting, which is increasingly extended to mass consumer products. in addition to economic aspects, the fight against counterfeiting is also a major public health and safety issue. it is therefore necessary to sanction infringements of intellectual property rights. but i am opposed to delegating the definition and application of these sanctions to international organizations which have not demonstrated their effectiveness. to this end, member states must be free to control their frontiers and to punish themselves for infringements of intellectual property rights, even if they take the necessary measures against third states which allow counterfeiting to develop for export to their territory.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague alessia maria mosca on the protection and enforcement of ipr in third countries. the industries that rely on ipr for their work account for 39% of total economic activity, or €4.7 trillion and 56 million jobs. the proper protection of patents and other ipr in third countries, in order to combat counterfeiting of all kinds, is therefore an important issue for europe, its citizens and its industry. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries because counterfeit products, including medicines, are a danger to european consumers and to the competitiveness of our european companies.
in writing. ‒ we are against this report because it is necessary above all to: - emphasise the policy of combating counterfeiting, recalling the cultural issues and the essential aspect of the control of the external and internal borders of the european union; - refuse to strengthen european harmonisation which leads to the loss of sovereignty by the member states; - favour a logic of intergovernmental cooperation within the framework of the prerogatives of the member states and not a supranational reasoning; - defend and promote the economic interests of each member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it shows the commission's willingness to take the protection of intellectual property rights in third countries into its own hands. i believe that this area should be the responsibility of the member states and the logic of intergovernmental cooperation.
in writing. - i voted against it. the failure to respect intellectual property rights is costing smes money. counterfeiting is increasingly widespread and touches on sensitive areas related to consumer goods, especially with the development of online sales. i agree with the statement, but i am less in agreement with the conclusions of this report, because there is still talk of reducing national sovereignty by developing enhanced cooperation led by the european commission. on the contrary, it should be possible for the member states to strengthen their border controls and to give priority to intergovernmental cooperation, rejecting any supranational logic and the creation of a european control body. each member state must be able to defend its economic interests.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against it. the report aims to empower the commission for all matters relating to the protection of intellectual property rights (ipr), whereas this should remain the responsibility of the member states. we reject the creation of yet another european body, which would be costly and inefficient, where intergovernmental cooperation would suffice. it is worth recalling that the priority here is to fight against counterfeiting and to protect our crops, and that this is first and foremost through the control of the external and internal borders of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of ms mosca's own-initiative report was to give the european parliament's opinion on the european commission's new strategy for the protection of intellectual property rights in third countries. despite the very poor approach taken by the commission when negotiating the acta treaty, which was rejected by the european parliament in 2012, the protection of intellectual property must be taken seriously. violation of intellectual property rights is a threat to the creative and innovative industries, which account for 26% of jobs at european level. with this in mind, the mosca report sets an ambitious roadmap for the commission, not only by asking it to continue its efforts towards third countries, but also by inviting it to improve its internal rules on the protection of intellectual property. it also sets clear red lines, for example to ensure that research protection does not come at the expense of access to health care in the least developed countries. i am in favour of a smart approach to creation and innovation and i voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the report validates the commission's proposal on the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights (ipr) in countries outside the european union. the text, as always, seeks to strengthen the 'market' by imposing on developing countries a clause on respect for iprs in free trade agreements. we must realise all the consequences of this device. the proposal strengthens the influence of large groups in these regions. the multinational pharmaceutical companies are thus encouraged to protect the secrecy of the molecules used, making it even more difficult to ensure universal access to affordable medicines or the development of generic medicines. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the diagnosis is relevant but the solutions are wrong. on the one hand, it is clear that european competitiveness is based on creativity and innovation and that, therefore, this creativity should be developed by improving the protection of intellectual property rights. at present, the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights is very time-consuming and costly, especially for smes. in fact, counterfeiting, which used to be mainly for luxury goods, is now also found in consumer goods. on the other hand, the proposed solutions are wrong. the creation of a european supervisory body would be costly and unnecessary. on the contrary, intergovernmental cooperation and the defence of the economic interests of the states, in particular through border control, must be given priority. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ while the importance of the fight against counterfeiting and illegal sales is rightly noted in this report, the proposals appear timid and are not based on the most effective tools available to member states. the emphasis should be on counterfeiting policy and the essential aspect of control of the external and internal borders of the european union. it is also necessary to give priority to a logic of intergovernmental cooperation within the framework of the prerogatives of the member states. the creation of an additional european body would be costly and undesirable. the report should therefore not be supported.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. this is to protect creativity and innovation, drivers of european competitiveness and pillars of the europe 2020 agenda. the text recognises that the union needs to develop a more ambitious strategy for the protection of intellectual property rights vis-à-vis its trading partners. counterfeiting is no longer limited to luxury goods but also affects consumer goods such as toys, medicines, cosmetics and foodstuffs. in 2013, nearly 36 million items suspected of infringing intellectual property rights were seized, worth more than €760 million. in addition to profiting from organized crime, counterfeit products pose serious health risks to consumers. the report adopted calls for the creation of a detailed legal framework, accompanied by an effective control mechanism, including, if necessary, repressive measures and sanctions, the implementation of which must not, however, unduly burden legitimate trade.
in writing. this report focuses on intellectual property rights in third countries, with a view to enabling them to integrate better into the globalised economy. although the report seeks to develop the intellectual property potential of the least developed countries, no differentiated approach has been adopted, leaving these countries in fact in a clearly disadvantaged position, particularly vis-à-vis multinationals in the pharmaceutical or agri-food sectors. the condition of access to the market for certain third countries to a very high level of protection of intellectual property rights excludes these countries from many opportunities for development. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries asks the right questions but gives the wrong answers. indeed, intellectual property rights (ipr) are a very important part of the strength of the european economy. i can only support the desire to fight counterfeiting more effectively, of which smes are the first victims. however, the infringements of state sovereignty which this relationship entails are simply unacceptable. i am very disappointed that there is a desire to strengthen european integration in this area, whereas the fight against counterfeiting is more effective at national level and in the control of the external and internal borders of the european union. the creation of another european body would be costly and unnecessary. there is also a major risk of a strengthening of the dispute settlement logic. for all these reasons, i can only vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ intellectual property rights are a driver for growth and innovation. the industries that often use intellectual property represent about 39% of total economic activity and 56 million jobs. it is therefore important to ensure that these rights are respected in europe and the world and to strengthen their enforcement. in this context, the european parliament adopted the european strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. it is important to guarantee the investments of our european companies in third countries and thus to ensure lasting trade relations between the union and third countries.
in writing. ‒ the knowledge industries are one of the pillars of our globalised economy and are constantly growing. indeed, the number of new european patents and new community trade marks registered more than doubled between 2003 and 2012. but this positive development is facing a major threat: counterfeiting. according to the oecd, these ipr infringements cost the world economy €200 billion a year. the report proposes to improve the institutional framework for ipr and to protect them adequately and effectively. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of intellectual property rights. the report also stresses the need to set up technical assistance programmes for third countries in the field of intellectual property. the competitiveness of the european union has been and will increasingly be based on creativity and innovation, which is why such a report is so important. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ following the rejection of the acta (anti-counterfeiting trade agreement) treaty by the european parliament in july 2012, the european commission considered a strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries and published a communication laying down the basis for this strategy in july 2014. there are commercial interests in maintaining the balance between rights holders and end users, which is a complex issue. as such, it is important that the commission analyses the possibilities of organising a public debate on the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. it is also necessary to consider the question of improving and properly harmonising member states' policies on intellectual property rights, which could improve standards of protection and enforcement at international level. i therefore supported this report which calls on the commission to start thinking about the very complex question of the balance between rights holders, economic operators and end users.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the call for better protection of intellectual property rights and for combating counterfeiting through legal procedures. but the general content of the report reduces the sovereignty of the member states by drawing a desire to strengthen: - on the one hand, the integration of international standards, agreements (wto) and the obligations and arrangements arising from them (such as a dispute settlement mechanism) in the field of ipr; - on the other hand, european integration in this field through enhanced cooperation and led by the commission in a perspective of relationship between the union, beyond the member states, and third countries. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ protection of intellectual property rights (ipr) is necessary in particular to protect the work of artists and to prevent counterfeiting. however, particularly in the case of trade with the countries of the south, iprs are used as a pretext to maintain dominance over these countries. whereas the public interest in access for all to knowledge, health, technology and natural resources should be emphasised, iprs are used to maintain monopolies, such as those of pharmaceutical companies, which put their profits ahead of the public interest. furthermore, the countries of the north and the south are treated as equals in the economic and political balance of power, which can only be to the disadvantage of the countries of the south, whose intellectual property rights are not as well protected as ours. i voted against this report because i am opposed to an intellectual property of domination and hegemony. the european parliament seems to have forgotten that it has largely rejected the acta agreement on counterfeiting.
madam president, i voted against this european union action plan to reform intellectual property law. this report foreshadows the reform of the 2001 infosoc directive. the debate in the legal affairs committee showed that these provisions were inadequate. it is clear that the reality of the digital world is not suited to the european legislative process. this reform is part of a process of harmonization which we are opposing. the means you devote to the achievement of your libertarian goals quickly prove obsolete when they come into force.
in writing. ‒ since 1957, many directives on intellectual property have been adopted to facilitate the establishment of a single market and thus reduce the differences between member states' rights in this area. the report aims to reform copyright and in particular the 2001 'infosoc' directive. the balance sheet of this directive is generally negative. i am in favour of preserving the french concept of copyright, even if it must necessarily be adapted to the information society. a possible liability of the access providers would be a possibility to be explored. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, in a context of technological development and increasingly globalised and online trade, the european union needed to equip itself with a new arsenal to combat infringements of intellectual property rights within the union. in order to deal effectively with intellectual property issues in third countries, the rules within the european union itself must also be better coordinated. the action plan focuses on measures related to offences committed in the commercial field and on a campaign to raise awareness among the population (especially young people) about the consequences of these offences.
in writing. ‒ the report on intellectual property rights: an action plan for the eu seems to me ineffective in its functioning and questionable in its aims. the draft initially submitted to the european parliament was purely and simply a declaration of intent and was therefore ineffective. i have doubts about some of the provisions in view of the consequences of the 2001 infosoc directive. as a defender of france's interests, i am very much attached to the preservation of the french model in respect of copyright, particularly in its moral aspect. one line of thought would be the possible liability of the access providers. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on intellectual property rights: an eu action plan. new technologies are making information exchanges ever faster, with an increase in the number of recipients and the distance between them. this requires a reflection which should lead to adequate protection of intellectual property rights. the european union must therefore be cautious in its approach to this subject, particularly in linking it to the opaque negotiations on the transatlantic treaty. it is therefore better to focus on practical measures. to do this, we must consider the responsibility of those who play a major role in the dissemination of information, namely the providers of access.
in writing. ‒ counterfeiting is a danger to the economy as well as to the health and safety of consumers. it is therefore more necessary than ever to deal effectively with intellectual property issues. the international context requires increased coordination within the union to deal more effectively with these issues in third countries. with this in mind, the report aims to raise awareness among young consumers of new digital challenges, prevent potential online abuse of counterfeiting and help smes enforce their intellectual property rights. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr pavel svoboda entitled 'intellectual property rights: an eu action plan'. the protection of intellectual property rights is a condition for the future of our european enterprises, the sustainability of our know-how and the sustainability of our jobs. as such, the fight against commercial counterfeiting of copyrighted content must be at the heart of our concerns and involve all actors in the digital ecosystem. counterfeiters are becoming more daring and are taking advantage of new technologies to move their counterfeit goods via the internet, making it very difficult to catch counterfeits. i think mr svoboda's report is going in the right direction, in particular by involving all the actors in the supply chain through a due diligence obligation. i also appreciate the attention in this report to raising public awareness of intellectual property rights and promoting legal offerings online. in this time of crisis, it may be necessary to make our citizens aware of the impact of piracy and counterfeiting on value added in a globalised economy, and the job losses they cause.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to oppose this report which continues the process of harmonising copyright at european level in the spirit of european integration and the establishment of a single european market. this type of standardization process, in addition to being harmful to national specificities which often protect freedoms more than european provisions, such as the "moral right" aspect of the french concept of copyright, can also be dangerous in terms of protecting consumer freedoms. in this area, the transposition of the infosoc directive into national law in 2001 led to the hadopi law in france: the 'creation and internet law' was thus intended to protect copyrighted content circulating on the internet. it cost the french state almost €12 million. in addition to being costly, such measures threaten citizens' digital freedoms.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report follows the action plan presented by the european commission to create an effective intellectual property policy at european and national level. the report supports the commission's approach overall, in particular on the need to protect intellectual property rights, the need to organise awareness campaigns among end-users and european citizens, the role of rights holders and the need for an intellectual property strategy including a legal framework adapted to the developments of the internet. i support this constructive approach and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european parliament voted in favour of the commission's policy on the protection of intellectual property rights (ipr), particularly in the area of electronic commerce. the cultural and creative industries account for 4.5% of the union's gross domestic product and 8.5 million jobs. these are not insignificant figures; the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the eu's ipr directive in the field of intellectual property. iprs help to maintain high standards of consumer, public health and environmental protection in the internal market.
in writing. ‒ effective enforcement of intellectual property rights is essential for innovation and competitiveness of our businesses as well as job creation. the commission's current approach does not make a sufficiently clear distinction between physical counterfeiting and digital copyright infringements. the european union therefore needs a comprehensive ipr strategy, including a comprehensive and robust legal framework to combat counterfeiting and piracy, and one that is fit for the digital age. this includes increasing legal and affordable offers. this response must be a step towards the european digital single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on intellectual property rights: an eu action plan. new technologies are making information exchanges ever faster, with an increase in the number of recipients and the distance between them. this requires a reflection which should lead to appropriate protection of intellectual property rights. the union should be cautious in its approach to this issue, including in linking it to the opaque ttip negotiations. it is therefore better to focus on practical measures. to do this, we must consider the responsibility of those who play a major role in the dissemination of information: the providers of access.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i cannot imagine that the european commission could take over the issue of intellectual property law and claim the exclusive right to legislate in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for an eu action plan on the protection of intellectual property rights. the proposal does not provide any concrete solution, although it is important to protect these rights, which are a source of wealth for our economy, except for the creation of an expert group on the protection of intellectual property. the draft submitted therefore falls within the scope of the memorandum of understanding. more importantly, the vagueness of this proposal should be a cautionary tale, as intellectual property rights have often been used as a pretext for government intrusion into the private sphere. this was the case in france with the adoption of the hadopi law which allows the monitoring of internet users' downloads, in the name of copyright protection. but i am opposed in principle to any provision to extend the monitoring of their electronic communications to as many people as possible. i will, however, remain attentive to proposals which seek to protect the intellectual property rights of companies, and in particular of smes, provided that these proposals do not infringe the fundamental freedoms to which we all attach importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for an eu action plan on the protection of intellectual property rights. the proposal does not provide any concrete solution, although it is essential to protect these rights, which are a source of wealth for our economy, other than the creation of an expert group on the protection of intellectual property. the draft submitted therefore falls within the scope of the memorandum of understanding. the very confusing content of the text should also be a cautionary tale, since intellectual property rights have often been used as a pretext for the intervention of public authorities in the private sphere. i will, however, remain attentive to proposals which seek to protect the intellectual property rights of companies, and in particular of smes, provided that these proposals do not infringe the fundamental freedoms to which we all attach importance.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pavel svoboda on the eu action plan on ipr. given that the cultural and creative sectors represent 4.5% of the union's gdp and 8.5 million jobs, but also include, inter alia, trademarks and patents, the fight against ipr fraud must be carried out at all levels, such as monitoring supply chains or raising consumer awareness of counterfeit purchases. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the communication entitled 'towards a renewed consensus on the protection of intellectual property rights: an eu action plan'. intellectual property rights are essential for competitiveness, employment and cultural diversity. in europe, protecting these rights is paramount in the context of the increasing use of the internet today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to establish an action plan to strengthen the protection of intellectual property rights in the european union. by voting overwhelmingly in favour of this report, which was entrusted to my colleague from the epp, pavel svoboda, we asked the european commission and the member states to put in place a comprehensive legal framework adapted to the digital environment, to combat infringements of intellectual property rights (ipr) more effectively within the european union. since intellectual property rights are a key factor for competitiveness, innovation and economic growth in europe, european legislation must protect them effectively. beyond the political message to the european commission and the member states, this report also has the merit of proposing concrete solutions to combat ipr infringements.
in writing. ‒ we are against this report because it is important to preserve the french conception of copyright (even if it must necessarily adapt to the current 'information society'), in particular the moral law aspect, and to consider the possible liability of access providers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it announces a reform of copyright which does not coincide with the french conception of this branch of law and which seems too repressive (see paragraph 19). it is feared that it will pave the way for the americanization of copyright that will be achieved by ttip.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. intellectual property rights were not part of the negotiations leading to the treaty of rome in 1957 and had to be harmonised through multiple successive directives over the years. this effort at harmonisation has borne fruit, as there are now very few differences between national laws. unfortunately, the european legislative process is so cumbersome that the reports and directives proposed in this area are already inadequate: the world and technology have moved too fast. we oppose this text because we want to protect our sovereignty and our specificities, and to preserve the french concept of copyright.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the svoboda report on intellectual property rights (ipr). the aim of the text is to curb the entry of counterfeit products and to develop defence measures in the sectors most affected. in this context, it advocates the deepening of the european due diligence system, applicable throughout supply chains to prevent infringements of ipr. it also provides for facilitating agreements with service providers, particularly on the internet, to limit the sources of income of offenders. the report, supported by the s&d group, goes further and places particular emphasis on the involvement of all actors in the supply chain, also emphasising consumer awareness and information. the revenue from iprs is also a source of funding for research and innovation. they are also an effective instrument for cooperation between universities and enterprises. finally, they promote a value dear to french socialists: cultural diversity.
in writing. ‒ intellectual property is seen as 'a driver of jobs and growth' essential to 'the proper functioning of the market', boosting innovation and competitiveness in knowledge-based sectors. the text therefore aims to improve the protection of intellectual property rights (copyright, trademark and patents) within the union. but far from encouraging open research and knowledge sharing, it strengthens the position of dominant players in the market to the detriment of users. in the absence of a balanced proposal, i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ since 1957, many directives on intellectual property have been adopted to facilitate the establishment of a single market and thus reduce divergences between national laws in this field. the report aims to reform copyright and in particular the 2001 'infosoc' directive. the balance sheet of this directive is rather poor. it is important to preserve the french conception of copyright, even if it must necessarily adapt to the information society. a possible liability of the access providers would be a line of thought. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ it is important to preserve the french concept of copyright, even if it must necessarily be adapted to the information society, in particular the moral law aspect, and to consider the possible liability of access providers. the report does not offer such guarantees and therefore calls for a vote against.
in writing. ‒ the report on the strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries makes commendable findings, but the solutions are at least questionable. the fight against infringement of intellectual property rights (ipr) is a pressing need in the public interest, particularly for smes, which are often the first victims. but this report is yet another attack on the sovereignty of the member states, since it further strengthens european integration in this area by proposing, in particular, the creation of a new european body, whereas a policy at national level, coupled with controls at the external and internal borders of the union, would be much more effective. for these reasons, i have decided to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on an eu action plan for the protection of intellectual property rights. the text calls for action to be taken against ipr infringements and the moral and economic damage they cause to european companies. a union action plan in this area is particularly important, especially for smes, whose vulnerability to market losses caused by counterfeiting trade exposes them to bankruptcy. the resolution calls for greater awareness among the general public, and more specifically among the younger generations, of the consequences of infringements of intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights place a heavy emphasis on respect for intellectual property rights, which are a driver of european competitiveness. the union is faced today with a large number of infringements of intellectual property rights, the volume and value of which are alarming. these violations discourage growth and creativity. the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights must therefore be ensured.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the enforcement of intellectual property rights addresses the economic, social and health consequences of non-respect of these rights, as well as methods to better respect these rights. our group has made a number of progresses, such as respect for the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the principle of proportionality. the failure to respect intellectual property rights can harm innovation, smes, creativity and cultural diversity, especially on the internet, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on intellectual property rights: an action plan for the eu seems to me ineffective in its functioning and questionable in its aims. the draft initially submitted to the european parliament was purely and simply a declaration of intent and was therefore ineffective. i have serious doubts about certain provisions in view of the consequences of the 2001 infosoc directive. as a defender of france's interests, i am very much committed to the preservation of the french model of copyright, particularly in its moral aspect. one way of thinking about this is to consider the possible liability of the providers of access. for all these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ in 2012, statistics showed that there were more than 90 000 cases of infringement of intellectual property rights at the eu's external borders. in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness, it is necessary to put in place adequate protection against counterfeiting and unfair competition. the european parliament adopted a union action plan for the respect and protection of intellectual property rights at the plenary session. i am proud to have voted for this text. this european strategy will make it possible to introduce new instruments to ensure a high level of protection of intellectual property rights and to support the competitiveness of european smes.
in writing. ‒ a reform of intellectual property law has become necessary in view of the increasing number of infringements. that is why i supported this resolution calling on the commission to submit a proposal to adapt the regulation, in particular to the new trading platforms. copyright, because of the changing nature of its scope, must be regularly amended. i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which proposes, among other things, the introduction of preventive information and awareness-raising measures, but also european aid to improve national redress mechanisms. however, we will remain vigilant to ensure that the commission's proposal does not impede competition and supports creativity and innovation by ensuring a safe, adequate and secure environment for inventors and creators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the protection of intellectual property rights. these are rights that are essential to the preservation of cultural diversity and the artistic world. in times of crisis, they are the main source of income for cultural professionals. any infringement of iprs must be fought, whether offline or online, with the sale of counterfeit goods on the internet, for example. to do this, europe has several instruments at its disposal. cooperation between customs in cross-border trade needs to be facilitated, the legal framework needs to be adapted to the digital age and consumers need to be better informed. the commission has chosen to set up awareness campaigns to make europeans understand the real consequences of ipr infringements for society and we welcome this initiative. we reiterate our call for a comprehensive ipr strategy that brings together all relevant actors, from member states to public authorities at all levels, including local, regional and national.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries sector, which makes intensive use of intellectual property rights (ipr), generates almost 4.5% of the union's gdp and accounts for up to 8.5 million jobs. in these times of financial crisis, ipr revenues are often the main source of income for artists and creators; the guarantee and safeguarding of fair remuneration for holders of such rights are therefore key elements of the action plan. to achieve this, the report aims to involve all actors in the online and offline supply chain, each with a role to play in the fight against ipr infringements. in addition, it is proposed to improve civil procedures for the protection of intellectual property for smes and creators, as they play a key role in the cultural and creative industries sector and often lack the capacity to enforce their rights. to protect innovation, creativity, competitiveness, growth and cultural diversity, i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ generally speaking, the european union is faced with many infringements of intellectual property rights and this has a negative impact on growth, job creation, creativity and innovation. it is in this sense that i have supported this report which calls for all the actors concerned to be involved in combating infringements of intellectual property rights and to help small businesses in pursuing this objective. the report also encourages the commission to carry out targeted awareness campaigns to raise awareness and inform consumers, and to set up a harmonised european system for the notification and removal of illicit goods and content. the ultimate aim of this action plan is to achieve a modern, pro-competitive and consumer-friendly framework for intellectual property rights.
in writing. ‒ it is important to preserve the french concept of copyright, even if it must necessarily be adapted to the digital information society, in particular on the moral law aspect, and to consider the possible liability of access providers. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the protection of intellectual property rights (ipr) and addresses the economic, social and even health problems posed by infringements of these rights, particularly via the internet. it is necessary to protect intellectual property rights, particularly in the cultural sector, and to consider how best to enforce these rights, by encouraging and protecting creation. it is also essential to help smes to enforce their innovations against large groups, for example through simpler access to justice. my group, the gue/ngl, has fought a real battle to demand that all application of iprs be made in compliance with fundamental rights and in particular the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and that all application be subject to the principle of proportionality. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which is in favour of better protection of ipr and encourages more rigorous monitoring of the application of legislation in this area.
madam president, we all agree that we must change our ways of life to protect the environment, but once again the countries of the european union are the good students who are sacrificing. for this is a sacrifice for a stake that is too big for us and that we cannot bear alone. every euro that is not invested in our industrial economy to produce here what we need is a euro that finances globalisation, pollution and, consequently, the production of co2. yet our production standards are of the highest standard. so let us stop cutting off our companies and our smes from their means of production and innovation. the united states recently submitted its contribution to cop21. they say they want to reduce their carbon footprint by 26%, but an american will still pollute five times more than a frenchman, for example. so, is it really credible and acceptable? how can we still negotiate a free trade agreement with the united states and at the same time claim to want to reduce pollution? everything is being done in complete schizophrenia, without a global vision and without any real perception of the issues at stake. these texts which are being proposed to us will, once again, result in a disproportionate effort by the europeans in a fight which is not theirs alone. it seems that the ultimate objective is not to save the climate or the planet, but to disarm the european economies completely. to meet this climate challenge, therefore, we need to change paradigms, change models and challenge the sacrosanct rules of the wto. in conclusion, let us embrace smart and ecological protectionism that preserves our local economies, our jobs and our climate.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i would like to ask mr fox a question. a little while ago, there was a debate on climate change: we need to reduce greenhouse gases. and you have just said that each state must retain its energy sovereignty and that the exploitation of shale gas must be encouraged. explain to me, how can we reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and our fossil fuel consumption, and at the same time address the problem of climate change and achieve the goals of cop21?
madam president, in the name of highly questionable geopolitical considerations, you are proposing to replace russian gas with american shale gas or even qatari lng - great democracy - in defiance of the criteria which make russia our natural partner, namely the available stocks and the ease of transit. the report by mr saudargas is thus, first and foremost, an indictment of russia, a political report which has little regard for the economic and ecological imperatives of our energy security. i want proof that there is no mention of biogas. this is a sector of the future that should be encouraged. biomethane, which is produced by the methanation of organic matter such as waste from the food industry or sewage sludge, has many advantages. this is indeed a job-creating and non-localizable energy. even better, if it is decentralised at the point where the waste is generated, its production contributes to the development of our rural areas. finally, the solid residual part of the biomethane production allows natural fertilisers to be substituted for chemical fertilisers. so before you make us dependent on russia and dependent on america and qatar, start by relying on the know-how of our industrialists.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a seven-year-old child would understand that the energy market cannot be an open and competitive market and that it is part of the natural state monopolies for energy security. the electricity market is an example: what is expensive is the excess production capacity that can be used only occasionally, during peak demand. let us not forget that the european union has a very important role to play in the world economy. so why is this house in favour of liberalising the energy sector? why did you choose energy insecurity? firstly, because of incompetence, because many people are not familiar with this market. secondly, to obey the speculative finance, present here and to the commission. because, make a spot market for electricity, gas or oil, and you can, through derivatives, buy or sell a hundred times, a thousand times the production, create shortages, play on prices and speculate. finally, to obey the united states, and therefore to make war on russia, to go from energy security with russia to energy insecurity without russia. this parliament is dominated by the liberal kleptocracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it took a major crisis with russia for us to finally have a serious debate on the european energy security strategy. it's about time. we face at least two challenges. the first is our energy dependence. we import more than half of the energy we use, which costs us about $400 billion a year - more than a billion a day! according to the figures, 95 per cent of our uranium, 90 per cent of our crude oil, 66 per cent of our gas and 40 per cent of our coal come from abroad. and russia accounts for almost a third of these resources, all types combined. the second challenge is climate change. we're told that to limit the temperature rise to 2 degrees celsius, we need two-thirds of our fossil fuels to stay underground. that's the problem. so what is the proposal from the commission and the member states? we're told we need to diversify our sources of supply. but the same system remains unchanged, because we hear that we have to plan for more gas pipelines, more oil pipelines, and this brings us back to fossil fuels. we are also told that it is imperative to exploit the indigenous resources. what are these indigenous resources? it's the unconventional gases, the shale gases. we in europe do not want shale gas! we are also talking about nuclear energy, but we will be dependent on uranium supplies, since we are not independent in this respect, and we will also be dependent on the russians in relation to rosatom. the solution is therefore to develop renewable energy sources, which are part of european sovereignty and contribute to energy efficiency. that's the real solution.
madam president, the overall energy strategy outlined in the saudargas report is rather in the right direction. the latter echoes the objectives of the delvaux report, which proposes three binding guidelines: a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, 30% renewable energy and 40% efficiency gains. these objectives are more ambitious than those adopted by the council and can only be welcomed. however, there are a few issues, notably the exploitation of shale gas and, more broadly, unconventional fossil fuels. it is not enough to stress and only stress that the extraction of these fuels is not very clean. this is why many of us believe that the use of hydraulic fracturing - a technology that is poorly understood in europe - poses risks and harmful effects on the climate, the environment and public health. the economic benefits will be far below what some experts have expected or promised. the operating costs are much higher than in the united states and the gas stocks are also less important. in fact, the american oil companies themselves are backing down by halting drilling in poland and hungary. even the impact on employment is limited, as experts estimate that the total number of workers in this sector has increased by between 0.1 and 0.2%. we therefore call on the member states not to persist in what could be a major wrong against the planet and the younger generations. we must stop exploring for and extracting unconventional fuels. we have the means, if we are willing, to support energy policies that are favourable to employment and the preservation of the planet.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, 'smart borders' and 'smart borders' are not the same thing. let's go over the vocabulary. this exorbitant cost, although it has been reduced, is a paradox in itself. the aim is to make the european union more attractive, to facilitate free movement, to improve border controls and to combat illegal immigration. to do this, we want to register everyone who enters the territory of the european union, that is 500 million people a year, the equivalent of the population of the union. the united states has a similar program, costing 1.5 billion dollars, to lock up 1,300 people, or more than a million per refusal. so we're going to set up a gas plant that will create more problems than it solves. fluidity is not for tomorrow. the commission has withdrawn its proposal, and that is good. but it wants to build on a pilot project run by eu-lisa and present a new one. this is a purely technical validation which is far from taking into account the scale of the problems. let us now turn to the conditions for the introduction of this test, which is only a smokescreen to force the hand of the european parliament, a way of taking up the obsession of the member states with border control and the registration of migrants after eurodac, sis and sis ii, which were already very expensive. these instruments are already questionable, but at least they should be taken into account. there's nothing to justify this project except security dogma and the obsession with hunting down migrants. what is a "risk traveller", commissioner? let us stop this freedom-threatening, far from effective, forward flight. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i did not set the four objectives i mentioned, the commission itself did. i think that before there is fluidity - as i said in my speech - it will be a long time before all citizens are registered before they can cross the border freely. in my view, this is not a question of ad hoc means. the principles of proportionality and necessity must be established. there is a colossal amount of money being spent - no financial problem in this matter - on a result which will be above all liberticidal for all those who will return to the european union, without having the slightest effectiveness.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, should we not be cautious about something or someone who claims to be intelligent from the start? unfortunately, the smart borders package does not seem to be exempt from this precautionary rule. first of all, be careful about its purpose: the question of law enforcement agencies' access to the personal data collected is now under discussion. this debate is obviously not about the smart borders package alone. law enforcement agencies are increasingly accessing data on people who are not normally suspected of any crime. so the question is what is it? a border management system or another security tool? secondly, prudence with regard to its impact on fundamental rights. on the one hand, the scheme aims to facilitate the journey of certain privileged travellers and, on the other, it aims to combat the overstaying of travellers who are a little less fortunate. will this differentiation between travellers not lead to a form of discrimination? what would be the basis for assessing the criteria for granting or refusing access to the registered traveller programme? finally, as regards cost, a smart border seems to be a border that costs a lot of money, which is probably not lost on the industry players. in addition to the intense lobbying that this system must provoke, is there not reason to question its cost-effectiveness? as already mentioned, the experience of the united states has largely called this report into question: more than 1.5 billion dollars of investment for only 1 300 refusals of entry. as the european union and its member states struggle to find the budget to save lives in the mediterranean, one can wonder if the gamble is really worth it.
mr president, since 2013, the commission has been wanting to put in place what it calls 'smart borders'. the aim is to register foreigners who frequently come to the union in order to speed up border controls and to check the biometric data of all foreigners who want to enter the territory of the union. this project seems to me to be objectionable for two reasons. firstly, it is a dangerous project for freedom, because it intends to computerise the personal data of millions of people; it is the same liberty-killing logic as that of the pnr project on the use of passenger data. secondly, these 'smart borders' are a front for strengthening the schengen system. but schengen is a terrible failure because every day migrants manage to enter the union illegally, especially in greece and italy. we need real state borders, not these pseudo-intelligent borders.
in writing. this statement by the commission is of course nothing new. the european union, confident in its globalist good sense, welcomes the abolition of national borders between the member states and the free movement of goods and people. the european union's borders are a real sieve. the european union is concerned about the plight of illegal immigrants and is even considering imposing quotas on the member states. member states already suffering the full effects of the austerity measures introduced by brussels, with the unemployment rate of young people under 25 exploding and the number of people living below the poverty line skyrocketing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is very encouraging because it once again dedicates a european structure which is not working properly to a subject which is so important: fraud. the report is worrying, as the observations made by the monitoring committee are relevant: high number of investigations with excessive delays; number of cases opened without the necessary means; basic legal procedures flouted, which undermine the rights of the defence rights that are essential to a democracy worthy of the name; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these facts lead us to conclude that the various criticisms are justified, that they threaten the credibility of olaf and therefore the fight against fraud, and that, if the european union were a real democracy and our parliament a real parliament, they would require a parliamentary inquiry into the organisation and functioning of olaf. since the commission does not want to deal with it, the members of parliament, who are the expression of the general will of the people, must take up the matter and allow for complete transparency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of european parliament is this where the president decides to manipulate the regulation because he is afraid of not having a majority for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership and because he is afraid of not having a majority for the isds system? what kind of parliament is this where the liberal right thinks that the debate on a subject of interest to the citizens should be spoiled? what kind of european parliament is it that is afraid of voting, afraid of debate and afraid of the european citizens? let's debate and vote!
mr president, i think you are probably using your impunity in this instance to defame your colleagues. this is absolutely outrageous, sir. you know very well that the national front has borrowed money from a russian bank. we've never kept it from anyone. but we, unlike you, cannot be bought. so maybe this is a mirror accusation?
mr president, i simply wanted to ask mrs hautala whether her amendment also covered financing by american, qatari, saudi, middle eastern or near eastern banks and a few other places. if so, we are happy to do so.
mr president, my motion for a resolution is based on rule 175 of our rules of procedure. as you know, it allows the president of our assembly to refer a text back to committee if he has tabled more than 50 amendments or votes per division. i see that this is the case with the report we are about to vote on. the president did not exercise that prerogative in the present case. i therefore wonder, as many of my colleagues do, whether, in exercising this prerogative for the vote on the lange report, which was due to be taken this morning, he was not acting on slightly more political and partisan concerns than purely technical ones. i leave that reflection to your judgment.
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol set targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions as part of a binding legal framework. the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol aims to open a second commitment period of the protocol, from january 2013 to december 2020. these kyoto agreements now appear to be ineffective, as only european countries comply with them, even though they are already among the least polluting countries. in addition, binding legal provisions have contributed to the deindustrialisation of the member states of the union. the european states must not be used to promote the cosmopolitan ideology which uses ecology to increase the profits of the world's superclass. they are also the only ones to apply these rules, since all the other states in the world practice protectionism, which the union rejects as a matter of principle. these multilateral commitments are ineffective but above all harmful to the peoples of europe and must therefore be put to an end. for these reasons i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation because the doha amendment introduces a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, until 31 december 2020. it thus reiterates the legally binding emission reduction commitments, whereby the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual ghg emissions over the period 2013-2020 to 80% of their emissions for the base year (1990 in most cases).
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by elisabetta gardini on the draft council decision on the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the joint implementation of the commitments arising therefrom. the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020. the amendment also provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments for the union, its member states and iceland: limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of those emitted in the base year, 1990. i voted for this motion because we must send a strong signal to the paris conference on cop 21 to fight climate change at international level.
in writing. as a continuation of the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment aims to open a second commitment period of the protocol, extending from january 2013 to december 2020. these are greenhouse gas emission reduction targets within a legally binding framework. i voted against this text because the member states of the union are the only ones who are really trying to respect the commitments made in kyoto: once again our states appear to be the turkeys in the basket because the constraints we impose on ourselves are hurting our industries, while our competitors have no such scruples.
in writing. ‒ following the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment is to open a second commitment period from january 2013 to december 2020. these are greenhouse gas emission reduction targets within a legally binding framework. yet these agreements are ineffective for a variety of reasons, such as the fact that the main polluting countries like china and the united states are excluded, or that the good results in terms of reduction in europe are mainly due to the slowdown in the economy and the loss of our industries. the kyoto protocol could be a step in the right direction if the effort were truly collective, but at present this agreement will only place constraints on eu member states. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the world's two largest polluters are china and the united states. however, these two states are not signatories. so how can we effectively combat greenhouse gases if those who are largely responsible for them do not join the effort? the citizens of the member states are accustomed to sharing with the union the pain they are strangers to: it would now like to make them bear the burden of the actions of other continents. this is a deeply counterproductive policy on the part of the union.
in writing. ‒ the big climate conference in paris is scheduled for december. despite the provisions of the 1997 kyoto protocol, the lack of compromise at the copenhagen conference in 2009 shows the difficulties in reaching a common agreement. it is more necessary than ever to take responsibility for global warming. the report calls on the member states to ratify the doha amendment. it legally obliges developed countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by at least 18% by 2020. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which recognises the enormous equality between the efforts made by member states to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and those of the most polluting countries which have been left out or exempted under the doha amendment. the amendment is therefore a very good one, but it is not enough to say that the amendment is not a good one. firstly, although it is clear that countries such as the united states and canada are the main polluters, they have chosen to depart from the doha framework, while the emerging industrializing countries, which are themselves likely to emit more greenhouse gases, are not included in the annexes to the amendment. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the member states are able to apply the new rules to the extent that they are compatible with the internal market. while we can welcome the recent turn in the united states in this respect, we must ask whether this recent change in attitude is not mainly a matter of expediency in this pre-electoral period.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give the european parliament's consent to the so-called 'doha' amendment to the kyoto protocol. the kyoto protocol, which entered into force in 2005, contains binding reduction targets for 2008 to 2012. in december 2012, the doha conference adopted an amendment establishing a second commitment period from january 2013 to december 2020. under this amendment, the european union, its member states and iceland commit themselves to limit their average greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of the 1990 baseline. i believe that the eu's agreement to the doha amendment must be given before the end of 2015 and ratified as soon as possible by the member states and iceland in view of the paris conference, so i voted in favour of this report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: meps voted in favour of the draft council decision on the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. it establishes a second commitment period (2013-2020) of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, with legally binding targets. we call on the member states to do their utmost to ratify this amendment before the third quarter of 2015. the european union will thus be able to defend higher ambitions for the fight against climate change at the paris conference in december.
in writing. ‒ parliament gave its approval to the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, which introduces a second commitment period for the kyoto protocol. it started on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020, and the emission reduction commitments are legally binding. the european union, its member states and iceland thus commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% for the base year (1990 in most cases) over the period 2013-2020. this amendment to the protocol is a strong signal from the european union for the cop21 in paris next december. given the challenges, the union must be the driving force behind european ambitions to prepare for the post-kyoto era.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the joint implementation of the commitments arising therefrom. the world's two largest polluters are china and the united states. however, these two states are not signatories. so how can we effectively combat greenhouse gases if those who are largely responsible for them do not join the effort? the citizens of the member states are accustomed to sharing with the union the pain they are strangers to: it would now like to make them bear the burden of the actions of other continents. this is an insolent persistence on the part of the union which, beyond stopping the inequalities it is reinforcing, should acknowledge the failure of its system.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because only the eu member states have to bear the burdens of the kyoto protocol. for example, the united states is not bound by any of its provisions at present.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this text on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the joint implementation of the commitments arising therefrom. the kyoto protocol set greenhouse gas emission reduction targets as part of a legally binding framework. the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol aims to open a second commitment period of the protocol, from january 2013 to december 2020. but it is now clear that the kyoto agreements are ineffective, because only european countries comply with them, even though they are already among the least polluting countries. on the other hand, binding legal provisions have contributed to the deindustrialisation of our countries. the european states must not be the useful idiots of ecology and liberalism, which they are the only ones to apply since all the other states of the planet practice protectionism, which the union rejects on principle. these multilateral commitments are ineffective but above all harmful to europeans and should be put to an end.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague elisabetta gardini on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. this essentially technical text allows member states to accede to the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, more commonly known as the 'doha amendment', which was signed in december 2012. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ following on from the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment aims to open a second commitment period of the protocol, extending from january 2013 to december 2020. these are greenhouse gas emission reduction targets within a legally binding framework. these agreements are proving ineffective for several reasons: - the main polluters (the united states, china, canada, etc.) have not joined them; - emerging countries are not included in annex 1 which sets the list of countries subject to reduction targets, while emerging economies are on track to emit more greenhouse gases than oecd countries in the medium term. the fight against greenhouse gas emissions and the energy transition require above all monetary sovereignty and intelligent economic protectionism. otherwise, the country that makes the most effort is ruined by imports of foreign equipment and cannot protect itself. so he's at a disadvantage. the private banking system does not have the means to finance the necessary investments, which amount to tens of billions of euros a year for a country like france.
in writing. - i voted against it. the doha amendment aims to make the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions a binding target. but this will not have any practical effect, since the main polluters (the united states, china, canada, etc.) are not party to the kyoto commitments. european countries have been successful in reducing greenhouse gas emissions due to a combination of factors: technological progress, economic slowdown and deindustrialisation. but some countries are not playing their part in the fight against these emissions, and this has the effect of putting the costs on member states. it's time to end this injustice. in addition, the united states' commitment at cop 21 to reduce its emissions is likely to put additional pressure on the eu member countries.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the doha amendment provides for the opening of a second period of commitments under the kyoto protocol, until december 2020, with binding greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. we opposed this report because the kyoto agreements are proving ineffective: the main polluters (the united states, china, canada, etc.) have been excluded, the emerging countries are not among the countries subject to reduction targets, while in the medium term they will be very polluting, and the efforts, if any, are not collective. we therefore do not see the need to continue with a second commitment period.
in writing. ‒ this report validates the council's proposal on the union's commitments to the kyoto protocol for its second period, 2013-2020, which was endorsed at the doha summit in 2012. meanwhile, states including the united states of america have refused to endorse these binding global warming targets. moreover, according to the ipcc's work, these efforts are far from sufficient. the eu would need to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30% by 2020 while still meeting the 20% target. the 'carbon market', the main measure to reduce european emissions, is ineffective. it allows polluting companies to sell their share of the right to pollute. but it also increases the debt of states by misusing public money to compensate for excess emissions. it therefore prevents the development of other policies in favour of the energy transition. i'll hold off. we cannot send a strong signal for the next meeting in paris, cop21, without changing these methods and objectives. as the ngos are calling for, let's change the system, not the climate!
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol set targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions as part of a binding legal framework. the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol aims to open a second commitment period of the protocol, from january 2013 to december 2020. but it is now clear that the kyoto agreements are ineffective, because only european countries comply with them, even though they are already among the least polluting countries. on the other hand, binding legal provisions have contributed to the deindustrialisation of our countries. the european states must not be the useful idiots of ecology and liberalism, which they are the only ones to apply since all the other states of the planet practice protectionism, which the union rejects on principle. these multilateral commitments are ineffective but above all harmful to europeans and should be put to an end. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ following on from the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment aims to open a second period of commitments, from january 2013 to december 2020, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. these agreements are proving ineffective because the main polluters (the united states, china, canada, etc.) have not joined them, and because emerging countries are not included in the annex which defines the list of countries subject to reduction targets, while their economies are on track to emit more greenhouse gases than developed countries. the kyoto protocol could be a step in the right direction if the effort were truly collective.
in writing. the doha amendment aims to extend the kyoto agreements signed in 1997 for a new commitment period from january 2013 to december 2020. it aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through legally binding regulation. ‬‬ however, several factors will lead to the ineffectiveness of these commitments. first of all, the main countries responsible for these emissions are not affected. the list of countries which must meet these reduction targets (annex 1) does not include emerging countries which are destined to become the world's main polluters. finally, if the countries of europe have achieved satisfactory results, this is primarily due to their technological advancement, but also to the economic crisis and deindustrialisation. in reality, this agreement only places obligations on the member countries of the european union, once again confined to their idiots of the global village. nothing is said about the necessary introduction of ecological protectionism, the only weapon capable of actually reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. it is purely technical, allowing member states to accede to the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. this commitment is important to continue our efforts to reduce carbon emissions and safeguard the future of our planet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, in view of the amendment to the kyoto protocol adopted at the eighth session of the parties to the kyoto protocol, in view of the request for approval submitted by the council and in view of the recommendation of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. this report concerns the european parliament's agreement to the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol on the commitment of signatory parties to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this new agreement, signed in 2012, extends the first commitment period on binding emission reductions until 2020. with this new agreement, the eu, its member states and iceland commit themselves to reducing their greenhouse gas emissions by 80% compared with 1990 levels. in order to limit as far as possible the adverse effects of air pollution from the major economies on global warming, i naturally voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ following on from the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment aims to open a second commitment period from january 2013 to december 2020. these are greenhouse gas emission reduction targets within a legally binding framework. these agreements are proving ineffective for several reasons:- the main polluters (the united states, china, canada, etc.) have abandoned them;- annex 1 gives a list of countries subject to reduction targets which do not include emerging countries, while the latter are on track, in the medium term, to emit more greenhouse gases than the oecd countries;- the good results of the european countries are largely due to technological advances, but also, unfortunately, to the economic slowdown and deindustrialization. this agreement places constraints only on the member states of the european union. the commitments of the united states, which are entering the pre-election period, are subject to caution and are particularly likely to serve as a pretext for further increasing the constraints on the member states of the european union. for all these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ meps approved the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change and the joint implementation of the commitments arising therefrom. i voted in favour of this proposal. the main purpose of the text is to allow the member states and iceland to accede to the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and to define the technical modalities for its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which validates the conclusion by the european union of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the amendment extends the eu countries' greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments for the period 2013-2020 and makes several changes to the original agreement, such as the addition of a new greenhouse gas. we are thus encouraging our member states to take the necessary steps to meet their emission reduction targets, and we are positioning the european union as the global leader in the fight against climate change ahead of the major climate conference in paris in december. let us hope that this great conference will live up to the challenge. hope is allowed.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol was adopted at the climate change conference in december 2012. it introduces a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments. for the european union and its member states, the objective is to limit average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of the 1990 baseline emissions for the period 2013-2020. i voted in favour of this text, which is partly the result of the measures contained in the 2009 'climate and energy' package.
in writing. ‒ following on from the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment aims to open a second commitment period of the protocol, extending from january 2013 to december 2020. these are greenhouse gas emission reduction targets within a legally binding framework. the great disparity in the world's efforts to combat climate change is counterproductive and it is unacceptable to prolong the application of such a system, especially since the rapporteur rightly notes that european states are suffering from these constraints while other states are abstaining. the persistence of this logic is therefore paradoxical. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ iceland is already participating in the eu's carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting. the european union, which is seeking to become a leader in reducing these gases, wants to bring other states alongside it. iceland has the advantage of being a particularly low-polluting country. the kyoto protocol and its provisions are ineffective, so the second commitment period will be as well. the major polluters, the united states, china and canada, have not ratified it, demonstrating a political pragmatism that is sorely lacking in brussels. emerging countries, which were not necessarily emerging countries in 1994 when the protocol was signed, are not mentioned in annex 1 of the agreement, which defines the countries subject to the reduction targets. i therefore advocate the abolition of this provision to make way for bilateral agreements, and i have therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it reiterates iceland's commitment, like all eu states, to limit its ghg emissions over the period 2013-2020.
in writing. ‒ this report on an eu-iceland agreement on the kyoto protocol suggests adopting the council position on iceland's integration into the kyoto commitments for the second period. iceland is a low-polluting country, exploiting geothermal energy for example. unfortunately, as in the text voted on earlier, these agreements are imperfect and insufficient for the same reasons. the largest producers and emerging countries not participating in the protocol. the agreement with iceland is designed to give the eu a leading position and this could lead to additional constraints for the member states. iceland would not even need such an agreement. as in the previous vote, i therefore decide to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the eu-iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. why is the union trying to integrate new states into an ineffective system? like the recommendation on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, this text is intended only to legitimize the strengthening of the objectives of the mechanism. on the contrary, we must think of a concrete and realistic programme based on cooperation between the sovereign states of europe.
in writing. ‒ the kyoto protocol was adopted in 2005. the countries that joined the agreement pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. the doha amendment is an extension of the kyoto protocol. it seals iceland's commitment, together with the european union, to maintain the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. it is essential that the various member states of the european union, as well as third countries, agree on the way forward in the fight against pollution and climate change. any new agreement to reduce emissions will make existing commitments more effective. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report which seeks to force iceland to comply with the commitments made by the union under the kyoto protocol. the union seems to want to position itself as the moral authority even in environmental policy, but the choice here seems particularly aberrant since iceland is recognised as one of the least polluting countries in the world, due in particular to its exploitation of geothermal energy. in addition, iceland - a country that recently withdrew from the eu candidate countries - is already participating in the eu carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting. finally, as i said in connection with the gardini report on the doha amendment, the kyoto protocol has proved ineffective in reducing greenhouse gases, as the main polluting countries are not subject to the obligation to reduce emissions.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to give the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of an international agreement with iceland for the implementation of the so-called 'doha' amendment and iceland's participation in the joint reductions to which the european union has committed itself. the report is linked to the gardini report, which was also voted on at this plenary session, and aims to facilitate iceland's participation in limiting average greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of those emitted in 1990, the reference year. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european union has been a driving force in the fight against climate change at global level, notably in the adoption of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change. at the end of the first commitment period (2008-2012) of the kyoto protocol, the eu member states became more involved by setting legally binding targets for the second period (2013-2020). so by 2020, our annual greenhouse gas emissions should not exceed 80 percent of the 1990 level. with this vote, we urge the council to adopt a decision authorising iceland to become associated with the joint implementation of these objectives. the broadest possible coordination of efforts at european level will enable us to approach the paris conference with a firm stance.
in writing. ‒ parliament approved the conclusion of the agreement allowing joint implementation of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol between the european union and iceland. the protocol provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments, whereby the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% for the base year (1990 in most cases) over the period 2013-2020. on the eve of the paris climate change conference in december 2015, this cooperation is moving in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the eu-iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. why is the union trying to integrate new states into an unsatisfactory system? like the recommendation on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, this text is only intended to legitimize the strengthening of the objectives of the mechanism. on the contrary, we must think of a concrete and realistic programme based on cooperation between sovereign states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the kyoto protocol is binding exclusively on the member states of the european union. it is also not appropriate to vote on a resolution on iceland, which has just formally withdrawn its application for membership of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this recommendation on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint implementation of commitments during the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. iceland is already participating in the eu's carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting, and the eu, which is seeking to become a leader in reducing greenhouse gases, wants to bring other states along. iceland has the advantage of being a particularly low-polluting country. the kyoto protocol and its provisions are ineffective, so the second commitment period will be as well. the main polluters, the united states, china and canada, have not ratified it, demonstrating a political pragmatism that is sorely lacking in brussels. moreover, emerging countries, which were not necessarily emerging countries in 1994 when the protocol was signed, are not mentioned in annex 1 to the agreement, which defines the countries subject to the reduction targets. such a system must be abolished to make way for bilateral agreements.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague giovanni la via on the eu-iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the kyoto protocol. this essentially technical text allows iceland to participate in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, more commonly known as the doha amendment, which was signed in december 2012. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. - i voted against that recommendation. this kyoto protocol is ineffective and unnecessary since the main polluters and potential polluters are not, or no longer, concerned. iceland has a unique low-polluting character, due, among other things, to its geothermal exploitation. for this reason, we do not think it necessary to impose this protocol on iceland and we oppose this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report also concerns the so-called doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the union and iceland have made commitments to combat climate change. they therefore jointly define and notify emission levels and their ratification. these commitments are largely inadequate. they're not being followed by the biggest polluters on the planet. they will not be able to reach european level by relying on the current 'carbon market'. we cannot send a strong signal for the next meeting in paris, cop21, without changing these methods and objectives. let's change the system, not the climate! i support the need for a binding model to combat global warming but not under these insufficient conditions. i'll hold off.
in writing. ‒ iceland is already participating in the carbon market and the eu's greenhouse gas declaration, which seeks to become a leader in reducing these gases, wants to bring other states along. iceland has the advantage of being a particularly low-polluting country. the kyoto protocol and its provisions are ineffective, so the second commitment period will be as well. the main polluters, the united states, china and canada, have not ratified it, demonstrating a political pragmatism that is sorely lacking in brussels. moreover, emerging countries, which were not necessarily emerging countries in 1994 when the protocol was signed, are not mentioned in annex 1 to the agreement, which defines the countries subject to the reduction targets. such a system must be abolished to make way for bilateral agreements. i voted against it.
in writing. iceland, being part of the eu carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting, the european parliament should be consulted on its inclusion in the kyoto commitments for the second period. the report therefore proposes to adopt the council's position. but these agreements will place new constraints on the member states of the european union, while other countries, which pollute more, are excluded (united states, china, canada, etc.) or not concerned (emerging countries). this new period of commitments will therefore prove ineffective. finally, iceland is a particularly low-polluting country, thanks in particular to its significant geothermal activity. i therefore see no reason to impose any new constraints on it. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical text on iceland's accession to the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, under the agreement between the european union and iceland. our non-eu partner iceland will also continue its efforts to reduce carbon emissions, which are important for the future of our planet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, having regard to the letter from the committee on foreign affairs, the recommendation from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the request for approval from the council and the agreement between the eu and its member states (including iceland) on iceland's participation in the joint implementation of the eu commitments during the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol.
in writing. under the doha agreement on the extension of the commitment period of the parties to the kyoto protocol, the european union and iceland have committed to enforce the new commitments until 2020. as iceland is a non-eu country, a separate international agreement had to be concluded between the two parties in order to include iceland in the joint commitments on the kyoto protocol. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which calls for a large number of countries to work together to combat climate change.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur suggests adopting the council position on iceland's integration into the kyoto commitments for the second period. iceland is participating in the eu's carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting. it is a particularly low-polluting state, thanks in particular to its exploitation of geothermal energy. the union wants to be a leader in action to reduce greenhouse gases and is therefore seeking to involve other states in its own commitments. this will mainly result in additional constraints for the member states. i have already explained that the kyoto agreements were ineffective anyway because of the non-involvement of the most polluting states and emerging countries. the good results in europe are more the result of deindustrialization and technological progress than of restrictive measures. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation to allow iceland to participate in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol. this technical text lays down the detailed rules for the implementation of this commitment between the union and iceland, on the one hand, and between the european union and the united nations, on the other.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which associates iceland with the other member states of the european union in setting binding greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for the period 2013-2020 through joint ratification of the doha amendment. having already committed itself alongside the european union in 2009, we welcome its renewed participation in the eu's emissions trading system and the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions. the climate challenges are immense and the more we work together on these issues, the better the results will be.
in writing. ‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol was adopted at the climate change conference in december 2012. it introduces a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments. iceland has expressed its intention to fulfil its greenhouse gas reduction commitments jointly with the european union during the second commitment period (2013-2020). i supported this text, which sends a signal about the coordinated efforts of the european union in the fight against climate change, in particular with a view to the paris conference on climate change in 2015.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur suggests adopting the council position on iceland's integration into the kyoto commitments for the second period. iceland is already participating in the union's carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting. this state has the particularity of being low-polluting, exploiting geothermal energy for example. the union wants to be a leader in ghg reduction actions and is therefore seeking to involve other states in its own commitments. but these agreements have proved ineffective. the very wide disparity in global efforts to combat climate change is counterproductive and it is not acceptable to prolong the application of such a system, especially since european states bear these constraints while other states abstain. the persistence of this logic is therefore paradoxical. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, since croatia has become a full member of the european union, there is no longer any need, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols. article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession merely provides that croatia is to accede to the conventions and protocols under that act.
in writing. i did not oppose this accession provided for by the very act of accession of croatia to the european union. i wonder if the croats are not already regretting that they have joined.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. the 2012 act concerning the conditions of accession of croatia to the european union simplified its accession to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union. it is no longer necessary, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols (which had to be ratified by the 28 member states). this recommendation for a council decision, proposed by the commission, is intended to make the adjustments made necessary by the accession of croatia to the convention and the protocol. however, there is a requirement for publication, since without publication an act is considered to be non-existent by the cjeu. the act of accession of croatia to the union implies that the country will almost automatically accede to the convention. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. this vote is purely formal: croatia's accession to the european union also implies its accession to the convention in question.
in writing. ‒ since its accession to the european union in july 2013, croatia has been able to accede to the various conventions and protocols concluded by the member states. this recommendation, which is purely technical, is intended to allow for the adaptations made necessary by the country's accession to the convention of 29 may 2000. the aim of this convention is to facilitate mutual legal assistance between the competent authorities of the member states in order to make cooperation in criminal matters more effective and faster. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report, which provides for croatia's accession to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal and judicial matters. while i am opposed to the logic of enlargement underlying such procedures, it is clear that croatia's accession to the convention is made logical by its very accession to the european union. as recalled in the explanatory memorandum of the report, 'there is no longer any need, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols (which would have to be ratified by the 28 member states): article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession simply provides that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of that act'. the legal simplification effected by the treaties therefore made croatia's accession to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters almost automatic.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to allow croatia to accede to the convention of 29 may 2000 drawn up by the council in accordance with article 34 of the treaty on european union (teu) on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and to the protocol of 16 october 2001 thereto. i think it is only right that croatia, as a full member of the european union, should become a party to this convention, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. croatia's accession to the european union entails accession to a number of conventions and protocols concluded between member states. in order to avoid overly burdensome procedures and long delays, the council may decide on the accession of croatia to such conventions and protocols, on a recommendation from the commission and after consulting the parliament. in the present case, the european parliament approved croatia's accession to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. the convention, signed on 29 may 2000, facilitates cooperation between the judicial, police and customs authorities of the member states in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved the recommendation for a council decision to take account of croatia's accession to the union and to improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this will improve the efficiency of investigations and the european criminal justice system.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the report on the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. this vote is purely formal: croatia's accession to the union also implies its accession to the convention in question.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because it contains a political dimension on enlargement and, consequently, on the intrinsic functioning of the european union.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague birgit sippel on croatia's accession to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. the technical report is intended to take account of croatia's accession to the european union and therefore to amend the treaty so that it can become a member. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. as a result of its accession to the european union, croatia's accession to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters is virtually automatic. so any discussion of this seems to be completely pointless.
in writing. ‒ the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters aims to encourage and facilitate mutual assistance between judicial, police and customs authorities in criminal matters. when croatia acceded to the european union, it also approved the convention. the next step is to validate the date of publication and entry into force in the country. i am opposed to enlargement of the union, but i support the sovereign choice of a state to participate in a european or international convention. the council of europe's similar convention is similar to this legislation and could have been sufficient. under the circumstances, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. the 2012 act concerning the conditions of accession of croatia to the european union simplified its accession to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the eu treaty. there is no longer any need, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols (which would have to be ratified by the 28 member states). this recommendation for a council decision, proposed by the commission, is intended to make the adjustments made necessary by the accession of croatia to the convention and the protocol. however, there is a requirement for publication since without publication an act is considered as non-existent by the cjeu but croatia, due to the act of accession of croatia to the european union, assumes a quasi-automatic accession to this convention. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical text, concerning the date of accession of croatia to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. this mutual assistance is essential to prosecute the perpetrators of crimes within the european union. that is why i voted for this text to bring it into line with european law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, in the light of the commission's recommendation to the council, in the light of the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, but also in the light of article 3 of the act of accession of croatia, according to which it was consulted by the council.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. this is a technical report on the accession of croatia, the new member state of the european union, to a convention signed and ratified by the union and all its member states, in this case the convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters, which covers six conventions in the field of justice and home affairs. i saw no reason to oppose this report, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. the 2012 act concerning the conditions of accession of croatia to the european union simplified its accession to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union. there is no longer any need, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols (which would have to be ratified by the 28 member states). this recommendation for a council decision, proposed by the commission, is intended to make the adjustments made necessary by the accession of croatia to the convention and the protocol. however, there is a requirement for publication, since without publication an act is considered as non-existent by the cjeu, but the act of accession of croatia to the union implies a quasi-automatic accession to this convention. i abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the main purpose of this technical text is to authorise croatia's accession to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and to specify the modalities of such accession. this accession is part of the process of adoption by croatia of the various union conventions following its accession in july 2013.
in writing. ‒ the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters aims to encourage and facilitate mutual assistance between judicial, police and customs authorities in criminal matters. thus, the member state to which mutual assistance is requested must comply with the formalities and procedures indicated by the member state making the request and must implement it as soon as possible, taking the utmost account of the deadlines indicated. i supported this text which allows croatia to accede to the convention.
in writing. i did not oppose this accession provided for by the very act of accession of croatia to the european union. is the european union really in a good position to teach lessons in the fight against corruption?
in writing. ‒ this resolution concerns the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union. since the 2011 act of accession of croatia to the union, croatia has to accede to conventions and protocols concluded by the member states of the union by a simplified procedure. the commission's recommendation on the convention between croatia and the member states contains a technical error concerning the date of entry into force, which creates uncertainty as to the actual date and thus threatens the very existence of the act. however, as in the previous vote, croatia's accession to the convention is de facto almost automatic through the act of accession of croatia to the union. that is why i also abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the accession of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states. like the report on the accession of croatia to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, this text is concerned only with form and not substance.
in writing. ‒ croatia is a new member state of the european union since 1 july 2013. as such, it needs to deepen its integration and be able to follow the course and conventions established by the member states. the convention of 26 may 1997 aims to combat any practice of corruption which could be used by officials of the european institutions or of the member states of the european union. it is thus a fundamental pillar of the proper functioning of the institutions. this convention guarantees a climate of confidence for our citizens in the national and european institutions. i voted in favour of croatia's accession to this convention.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to abstain on this report concerning croatia's accession to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states. if i object to the logic of enlargement underlying such procedures, it is clear that croatia's accession to the convention is logical in the light of its accession to the european union. as recalled in the explanatory memorandum to the report, 'there is no longer any need, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols (which would need to be ratified by the 28 member states): article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession simply provides that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of that act'. the legal simplification effected by the treaties therefore made it almost automatic for croatia to accede to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to enable croatia, following its accession to the european union, to accede to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of member states, drawn up on the basis of article k.3 (2) (c) of the treaty on european union (teu). i think it is only right that croatia, as a full member of the european union, should become a party to this convention, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the act of accession of croatia to the european union, signed in 2011, provides for a simplified procedure allowing the 28th member state to accede swiftly to the six union conventions and protocols in the field of justice and home affairs. i supported the council's decision to accede croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european union or of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has given a favourable opinion on this report, which aims to make the adjustments required for croatia's accession to the convention on the fight against corruption involving european officials. the fight against corruption must remain a priority in these newly arrived member states in order to improve the effectiveness of the european policies put in place.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the report on the accession of croatia to the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states. like the report on croatia's accession to the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, this text is only a facade. the best way to avoid these role-playing games is to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because it mainly includes a debate on enlargement and therefore on the essential functioning of the european union.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague filiz hyusmenova on croatia's accession to the convention on the fight against corruption in the work of community officials. the technical report is intended to take account of croatia's accession to the european union and therefore to amend the treaty so that it can become a member. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ abstention on this vote. as in the previous vote, croatia's accession to the convention is automatic in any case because of its accession to the european union. so any debate on this seems pointless.
in writing. ‒ in its act of accession to the european union, croatia also approved a package of european conventions, including the one on the fight against corruption. the next step is to validate the date of publication and entry into force in the country. i am opposed to enlargement of the union but i support the sovereign choice of a state to participate in a european or international convention. under the circumstances, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this resolution concerns the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union. in accordance with articles 3 (4) and 3 (5) of the 2011 act of accession of croatia to the european union, croatia is to accede to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states by a simplified procedure. the council has to decide on the date of entry into force of these conventions for croatia, but also to adapt them (translation of the conventions into croatian, etc.). the commission's recommendation on the convention between croatia and the member states contains a technical error concerning the date of entry into force, which creates uncertainty as to the actual date and thus threatens the very existence of the act. however, we reject this desire for the indefinite enlargement of the european union and the simplified procedure for croatia's accession to the conventions to which the eu member states are parties. in those circumstances, i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical text concerning the date of accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union. the fight against corruption is a major challenge to maintaining the confidence of europeans in their institutions. that is why i voted for this text to bring it into line with european law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, in the light of the commission's recommendation to the council, article 3 of croatia's accession, article 59 of its rules of procedure and in the light of the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. this is a technical report on the accession of croatia, the new member state of the european union, to a convention signed and ratified by the union and all its member states, in this case the convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of member states. i saw no reason to oppose this report, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the european union. in accordance with articles 3 (4) and 3 (5) of the 2011 act of accession of croatia to the european union, croatia is to accede to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states by a simplified procedure. the council has to decide on the date of entry into force of these conventions for croatia and also to adapt them (translation of the conventions into croatian, etc.). the commission's recommendation on the convention between croatia and the member states contains a technical error concerning the date of entry into force, which creates uncertainty as to the actual date and thus threatens the very existence of the act. i reject this desire for the indefinite enlargement of the european union and the simplified procedure for croatia's accession to the conventions to which the member states of the union are parties. in those circumstances, i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or of the member states of the union. this is part of the process of integrating croatia into the union's regulatory values and legacy following its accession to the union in july 2013.
in writing. ‒ the convention aims to combat corruption involving european officials or national officials of the member states of the european union. each member state is thus obliged to take the necessary measures to ensure that conduct constituting acts of passive or active corruption by officials is punishable by criminal law. the fight against corruption and fraud is a top priority of the european union, which has always been defended. i supported this text which allows croatia to accede to the convention.
mr president, our colleague mr rohde spoke earlier, probably to our detriment, of 'useful idiots'. i do not know if i am an idiot, but i will give him some useful information about this parliament, where i have sat for 29 years. i have never heard, 29 years ago, the slightest criticism of the soviet union, which at that time was a reign of terror and had enslaved all the peoples of central and eastern europe. since the soviet union liberated the peoples of central and eastern europe from military occupation, since it dissolved the warsaw pact, since it gave back its freedom - and i am happy to say this - to the baltic states and many other central asian and other states, russia has been the target of a lot of attention, and it is certainly not perfect. but, ladies and gentlemen, what do you think? you are outraged by the blacklist drawn up by the russian government, but a year ago you went so far as to ban the entry of parliamentarians! the speaker of the russian parliament has no right to come and talk to us! the same goes for diplomats! and you wonder today why the russian government decided to go for a shepherd's response to the shepherdess. you've declared economic war on russia, but you want to continue exporting our products, agricultural or food, as if nothing had happened. the majority of this parliament is in a world of bisonours, who have no awareness of the realities of current geopolitics.
in writing. ‒ the main motivation for this report is a primary russophobia. the russian federation is accused of all the evils: the outbreak of war against georgia, while tbilisi was blamed by the independent international commission, the "illegal annexation of crimea", while the people of crimea seemed to be clearly in favour of this annexation to russia. strangely enough, brussels was much less severe when russia was under soviet rule, though responsible for tens of millions of deaths. the rapporteur also states that russia 'can no longer be treated or considered as a strategic partner'. this is a serious political mistake: if we want to see the advent of a multipolar world, in which france and europe are not subject to any foreign great power, we must, on the contrary, make russia one of our privileged partners. finally, this report departs from its original objective and subject matter, which was to call on the member states to continue and intensify their efforts to eliminate the remaining decision-making bottlenecks. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, following the events in ukraine and the release of the blacklist of 'persona non grata' in russia, the european union must act and reassess its diplomatic position vis-à-vis the kremlin. we must send a strong message to the russian leadership that we stand united with the victims of their aggression and with those who support the values on which the european union is founded.
in writing. this is an exemplary report of the reversal of the eu's accusations against russia. i regret that my baltic colleagues cannot get over their resentment towards their russian neighbour: where is the spirit of reconciliation and peace that the eurocrats boast about ? on the contrary, too many members are only trying to add fuel to the fire by making war declarations, which are both unworthy and irresponsible. in the meantime, who benefits from this new cold war we're being dragged into? certainly not to our farmers, nor to our industrialists.
in writing. ‒ the report on the state of play of relations between the european union and russia is deeply scandalous. the text is extremely bellicose and only seeks to intensify the confrontation between the european union and the russian federation, whereas the only reasonable foreign policy to pursue would be that of appeasement and a return to normalcy. for example, the report accuses the russian federation of being responsible for the outbreak of the 2008 crisis in georgia, even though an independent international commission report, led by swiss diplomat heidi tagliavini and funded by the eu, found in 2009 that georgia was responsible for the outbreak of the conflict. russia is a partner of the european union and must be treated as such, no more and no less. i regret to see that some people seem to be responding to the injunctions of the united states by voting for this text. the report also covertly promotes ever greater european integration and therefore less sovereignty for the member states. for all these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the state of play in relations between the european union and russia. the french expect us to take a realistic position on russia. far from being objective, this report proposes to convey a pro-american and anti-russian vision. it is not necessary to remind you that russia is a privileged partner for europe in many areas. this text presents an unreliable picture of two states: one good, the other bad. i do not think that improving relations with russia requires political determination. it is the victim of the double language of the majority members who are constantly denouncing the russian choices while calling for an appeasement. by fanning the fire they say they want to put out, they are only serving the united states at the expense of the very states they represent.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the report on the state of play of relations between the european union and russia as a whole. once again russia is being singled out as the big bad wolf that is deliberately trying to cause chaos in europe to satisfy a so-called ruthless imperialism. a true model of subjectivity in the interpretation of geopolitical facts, the report thus attributes all responsibility for the georgian crisis of 2008 to russia, thus ignoring the conclusions of the report of the independent international commission on the subject and which established, in 2009, that the georgian authorities bore responsibility for the outbreak of the conflict. the last-minute amendments to the text by the rapporteur also endorse the decisions taken in a completely arbitrary manner by martin schultz on 3 june 2015 who, in total violation of the rules of the european parliament, denied the russian ambassador access to the european parliament without even informing the conference of presidents beforehand. the report by mr landsbergis is a denial of democracy, since it refuses to recognise the referendum approved by the people of crimea. a typical model of dogmatism.
in writing. ‒ this report presents a critical state of play in relations with russia, the union's strategic partner, which are marked by the armed conflict in ukraine, the annexation of crimea, the violation of georgia's territorial integrity, economic coercion or political destabilisation measures taken against certain european states, and the eu's response to the imposition of heavy economic sanctions against russia. i think that the strategic partnership with russia is currently being undermined by its founding principles, namely mutual trust and respect for international law, democracy and national sovereignty. condemning the present attitude of the russian government but believing that the member states, the european external action service and the european commission must work constructively and relaunch the dialogue with the russian federation with a view to establishing constructive and predictable relations, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament reaffirms its opposition to russian military destabilisation operations in its immediate neighbourhood, such as those taking place in ukraine. it also condemned the continuing deterioration of human rights in russia under the government of vladimir putin. the european parliament condemned the increasingly harmful climate towards minorities such as the crimean tatars, whose freedoms and rights were being violated. the freedoms of political opponents of mr putin's government are also being undermined: residence bans, "black lists", abusive detentions, unfair trials, etc. the state of play in relations with russia is therefore more than mixed. the european union considers that the implementation of the minsk agreements is necessary to continue its discussions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the state of play in relations between the european union and russia. the french expect our words to be serious, relevant and realistic. far from being impartial, this report proposes to convey a pro-american and anti-russian vision. it is not enough to say that russia is a privileged partner for europe in many respects. this text presents an unreliable picture of two states: one good, the other bad. i do not think that improving relations with russia requires the perpetual harassment it is suffering. it is the victim of the double language of the majority members who are constantly denouncing the russian choices while calling for an appeasement. by fanning the fire they say they are trying to put out, they are only serving the united states at the expense of the very states they represent.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is only intended to aggravate relations between the member states of the european union and russia. this is a report solely on the part of the commission, which i consider unacceptable in the present state of affairs.
in writing. ‒ the report put to the vote is a case study in terms of bias and manichaeism. it is a presentation of the situation with regard to russia alone, which, far from moving in the direction of an improvement in relations between the european union and the russian federation, leaves the latter with only two choices: submission to the europeanist dogma, both from a legal and ideological point of view, or isolation. far from the spirit of interference and moralising which dominates the text, attributing to russia all the evils in the field of respect for human rights, public freedoms, public morality, international trade and geopolitics, we reaffirm our opposition to a stigmatisation of russia. this text is only a step forward in the direction of washington. the european nations must not be held hostage to a potential cold war which the peoples have not called for. the patriotic members of parliament will therefore vote against this text in a peremptory, threatening, feudal and oriented tone.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report on the state of play of relations between the european union and russia, in which the main motivation is ideological in the service of a very worrying russophobia. the russian federation is accused of all the evils: of having started the war with georgia, even though the responsibility for tbilisi had been put forward by the independent international commission; of having been the first to declare war on georgia, even though the war had been declared by the independent international commission; of having been the first to declare war on georgia, even though the war had been declared by the independent international commission; of having been the first to declare war on georgia, even though the war had been declared by the independent international commission; of having been the first to declare war on georgia, even though the war had been declared by the independent international commission; of having been the first to declare war on georgia, even though the war had been declared by the independent international commission; of having been the first to declare war on georgia, even though the war had been declared by the independent international commission. the eu has also been accused of 'illegally annexing crimea' when the democratically elected government of crimea had requested its annexation to the russian federation. the rapporteur also states that russia 'can no longer be treated or considered as a strategic partner'. this is a serious political mistake: if we want to see the advent of a multipolar world, in which france and europe are not subject to any foreign great power, we must, on the contrary, make russia one of our privileged partners. finally, this report departs from its original objective and subject by calling on the member states to continue and intensify their efforts to eliminate the remaining decision-making bottlenecks.
in writing. i abstained on the report by my colleague, mr gabrielus landsbergis, on the state of eu-russia relations. the report notes the deterioration in relations between the european union and russia, but unfortunately does not propose viable solutions for a peaceful solution to the crisis. the text is unnecessarily aggressive and proposes measures which would only increase the already very high tension between the union and the russian federation. it would also close the door to any dialogue between the two parties by no longer considering russia as a strategic ally of the union, whose cooperation is vital for the peaceful settlement of the situation in iran or the middle east, for example.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the landsbergis report to take stock of eu-russia relations in adopting this report, we called on the european union and the member states to critically reassess their relations with russia in the light of its violent military action in western ukraine and its recent annexation of crimea, in total violation of international law. the report also condemns the 'black list' set up by russia which arbitrarily bans 89 european politicians and officials from entering its territory.
in writing. ‒ the report on relations with russia adopts a line of confrontation which only reinforces the distrust between two groups obliged to agree. by taking the side of confrontation, by engaging in russian provocations, we are playing to the hardest tendencies of russian power by legitimizing its fabricated vision of a power besieged by a hostile west. to get out of these provocations requires responding to them with intelligence and not responding by escalating. that is why, while i strongly condemn the bans on european parliamentarians and diplomats from entering russian territory, i do not support any such retaliatory measures which feed the nationalist rhetoric of the russian authorities. i do not support the re-writing of history in russia during the stalinist period, nor do i support the attempts to include nazism and communism in a totalitarian whole. i am, on the contrary, in favour of dialogue and the maintenance of existing cooperation, which is the means of maintaining channels of discussion at a time when political powers are clashing. we are not naive, especially with regard to russia's attempts to influence european political parties, nor are we confrontational. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is far too aggressive towards russia. he said that the eu was "no longer a strategic partner" of the eu and accused it of creating a climate of hatred in europe. he also demanded that crimea be returned to ukraine in violation of the right of peoples to self-determination. finally, he wants to finance anti-russian propaganda and to raise the profile of european public opinion against russia. this is a shameful and irresponsible report which reveals that the majority of the european parliament has become a party to war. at the risk of being branded once again as a parliamentarian "sold" to the russians, i hope that the european leaders will regain their composure, break free from the grip of the united states, and find a way back to firm but fair negotiations with russia.
in writing. - i voted against it. another report hostile to russia, seen as a dangerous adversary and held responsible for political instability in eastern europe. the country is accused of being responsible for the conflict with georgia, although a report by the independent international commission proved otherwise. the same applies to the annexation of crimea, which is described in this report as an annexation, despite consultation with the population. thus, russia is now described as a country that can no longer be treated as a "strategic partner". the european union, which is always quick to deny diplomatic autonomy to its member states, asks them to preserve european unity. in practice, therefore, member states are prohibited from not following the union's position. this is clearly stated in the text, in a federalist draft, as it calls on these states "to definitively remove decision-making blocks and to work ... to consolidate common policies, especially in the areas of trade, services and financial transactions, migration, energy, management of external borders, information and cybersecurity".
in writing. - i voted against this report. this state of affairs is in fact a long litany of criticism of russia, which is blamed for all the ills. it is accused of creating a climate of tension and of drawing up an arbitrary and reprehensible blacklist: what about the sanctions planned by the union against russia a year ago ? the text, in turn, announces that russia is no longer a strategic partner of the european union, then acknowledges that sectoral cooperation is possible, and finally conditions our relations on the fact that russia "rends" crimea to ukraine, in the process ignoring the right of the peoples to decide for themselves (let us recall that the people of crimea voted for its annexation to russia). the eu defends democracy only when it is in its own interests. the resolution as a whole is a farce, a clever mixture of anti-russian propaganda, bad faith and a call to arms, which we reject.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is clearly taking a stand here for further escalation of tensions between russia, ukraine and the european union. he's calling for new sanctions against russia. the 'return of crimea' and compliance with the minsk agreements is the precondition for considering cooperation with moscow while recognizing the many common international challenges that both sides should tackle together. the report ignores the provocations of the far-right government in ukraine and turns its back on the conciliatory role which the union should play. russia is 'acting in defiance of the international democratic community' which would require 'strengthening cooperation between the union and nato' the well-known great ally of peace, etc. the rest is just double weights double measures. he condemned the 'illegitimate use of energy as a means of political and diplomatic pressure', which is exactly what parliament advocates against russia in its report on the energy strategy. he called for the strengthening of the eastern partnership with countries which are not 'liberal democracies', which then no longer poses any problem to the rapporteur.
in writing. ‒ the report accuses the russian federation of all the evils: starting the war with georgia, when tbilisi was blamed by the independent international commission, or "illegally annexing crimea", when the democratically elected government of crimea had asked for its annexation to the russian federation. the rapporteur also states that russia 'can no longer be treated or considered as a strategic partner'. this is a serious political mistake: if we want to see the advent of a multipolar world, in which france and europe are not subject to any foreign great power, we must, on the contrary, make russia one of our privileged partners. finally, this report departs from its original objective and subject by calling on the member states to continue and intensify their efforts to eliminate the remaining decision-making bottlenecks. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report on eu-russia relations contains unnecessarily harsh and offensive terms towards russia, which contribute to the escalation of reciprocal sanctions. i believe that only a respectful and calm dialogue will enable political solutions to be found to the ukrainian crisis. this kind of report only serves to aggravate relations between the eu and russia, which is why i abstained in the vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on relations between the european union and russia. with the annexation of crimea and the aggression against ukraine, russia is violating the principles of democracy, the rule of law and international law. the european union cannot therefore envisage a resumption of relations with russia in the normal way. the european parliament expressed its concern at this report and reaffirmed the need for unity among the member states. however, constructive and predictable relations between the union and russia are possible for the benefit of both parties, provided that russia respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine, including crimea, fully implements the minsk agreements and puts an end to destabilising military and security activities on the borders of the european union.
in writing. this report is yet another proof of the russophobia that surrounds us. in line with the brzezinski doctrine, russia is presented as the absolute evil that the european union must fight with all its might. the report blames russia for the entire georgian war, even though the international commission on the subject, led by h. tagliavini, concluded in 2009 that the georgian authorities were responsible. the report also criticises the enhanced cooperation between russia and georgia, but also the annexation of crimea to russia, which it calls an 'illegal annexation' even though the crimeans have sovereignly decided to do so, and a recent poll by one of the most important german institutes showed that 93% of the inhabitants of crimea support this annexation. ‬the rapporteur concludes that russia can no longer be considered a strategic partner. ‬while the eu sanctions against russia have weighed down our producers with a drop in exports, and at the same time, us exports to russia have been increasing, the union has confirmed, by its atlanticist submission, that it is the idiot of the global village. i therefore voted against this report. ‬
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, although on many points the union's position is excessively harsh and goes beyond the diplomatic language that should be used in our relations with any country. despite the tensions and fears, we must continue to engage with the russian federation because it can help us find the key to many conflicts around the world.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. this highly offensive report aims to give a snapshot of russian-european relations, but contains many questionable elements. the report accuses russia of unilaterally damaging its relations with the union, of encouraging many frozen conflicts in its neighbourhood, of interfering in the affairs of sovereign countries with russian minorities and of calling into question the international order based on the rule of law. the report also states that russia is no longer a strategic partner for the union and recommends freezing or reducing cooperation programmes between the european union and russia. i voted against this report because i cannot support the positioning of the two major players on our continent as rivals and the revival of a cold war atmosphere, when we would have everything to gain as partners, based on the rule of law and goodwill.
in writing. ‒ the text voted today provides a realistic assessment of the current state of relations between the european union and russia. the work of the group's rapporteur, liisa jaakonsaari, has helped to rebalance the text of the epp rapporteur. in its original form, it set unrealistic conditions for the resumption of cooperation between the union and russia, such as the return of crimea to ukraine. the resolution adopted takes a more open approach and better reflects the position of the socialists and democrats: if we are to be firm with the russian government, to be uncompromising on democratic principles and not to give in to intimidation, we must also leave room for dialogue. only a constructive approach will enable us to resolve the crisis in ukraine. the european union must be patient: it will take time to resume full cooperation with russia and perhaps even longer to settle the dispute in crimea. during this time, we must maintain our unity and maintain dialogue.
in writing. ‒ in line with the brzezinski doctrine, russia is presented in this report as the absolute evil that the union must fight with all its strength. the text places the entire responsibility for the georgian war on russia, even though the international commission on the subject, headed by h. tagliavini, concluded in 2009 that the georgian authorities bore this responsibility. the report also criticises the enhanced cooperation between russia and georgia, but also the annexation of crimea to russia, which it calls an 'illegal annexation' even though the crimeans have sovereignly decided to do so, and a recent poll conducted by one of the leading german institutes showed that 93% of the inhabitants of crimea support this annexation. it is incomprehensible that the european union did not want to get involved in ensuring that the referendum took place under the best possible conditions. the rapporteur therefore concludes that russia can no longer be considered as a strategic partner. while the union's sanctions against russia have caused our producers to reduce their exports, and at the same time american exports to russia are increasing, the european union is confirming, by its atlanticist submission, that it is the idiot of the global village. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the face of russia's occupation of crimea and russia's deliberate violations of international agreements, the european union must seriously and swiftly reassess its strategy towards that country. this is the message we wanted to convey to the european commission when we adopted the report on the state of play between the union and russia. i voted for this report and i think it is important to condemn russia for its recent actions, including the publication of a blacklist of european politicians. the member states must come together to formulate a common and coherent response to russia. however, it is also important to encourage a policy of openness with russia so as not to break all ties with that power. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ a firm stance towards the russian authorities is necessary in response to their provocative behaviour. the credibility of the european union in defending its values and security is at stake, and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which is in the right direction in terms of the attitude to adopt. as a direct result of its repeated violations of international law, russia can no longer be considered a strategic partner. this should include reviewing our defence cooperation and developing measures to reduce our dependence on russian gas.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the state of play of relations between the european union and russia at a time when the international balance is very precarious. russia has not respected the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine during the armed conflict, has illegally annexed crimea and continues to carry out an organised crackdown on political dissidents. we recall that anna politkovskaya, natalia estemirova, boris nemtsov, sergei magnitsky and alexander litvinenko were murdered because they were critics of the regime in power. we strongly condemn all violations of international law, the rule of law and human rights. from now on, we must be clear. russia must respect international law, fully implement the minsk agreements and cease its military activities on the borders of the member states. our assembly also wants to see a comprehensive strategy for the future of our relations with russia and eastern europe. a resumption of relations in a constructive spirit is desirable for both sides but this will only happen if russia respects its commitments.
in writing. ‒ this report looks at eu-russia relations and follows in the footsteps of all previous reports and resolutions on russia, which is seen as a danger and a source of global instability. this report is biased and biased. in particular, in the historical review of russia's involvement in the events in georgia during the 2008 crisis and the annexation of crimea. the rapporteur says that russia cannot be considered a serious strategic partner and threatens it directly if it does not show more docility. i am of course opposed to this surrealist text.
in writing. ‒ the landsbergis report supports the latest european council decisions against russia. this report, like the other texts voted on the subject in recent months, is a unilateral and warmongering report, which can only aggravate tensions between the european union and russia with hints of the cold war and even of surrealist primary anti-communism on the right of the house. the report calls for accelerated funding for 'independent civil society' in russia and for a genuine anti-russian propaganda programme to be set up in the european union and in the eastern partnership countries. whatever the mainstream anti-russians may think, russia remains a strategic partner for the european union which we must treat without complacency or animosity. it is also time to open our eyes to what is happening in ukraine, where corrupt oligarchs are far from being the paragons of virtue. i denounce this policy of 'double standards', a war-mongering policy which always denounces the same countries with vehemence but turns a blind eye when it comes to the gulf countries or israel. i therefore voted against this report without feeling any ill will.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text for two main reasons: the ideological and principled hostility towards russia it contains, and the interference in the policies of the member states it supports. the rapporteur was lithuania's foreign minister in the 1990s, which partly explains his hostility to russia. he therefore advocates turning entirely to the united states to end energy dependence on russia. he argues that the latter would be an unreliable partner, without ever giving a concrete example of a contract not respected. in particular, despite the tense geopolitical situation, russia has further increased its exports of natural gas to the eu countries. instead of relying on russian gas, the text wants europe to rely on us or qatari shale gas, which is geopolitically questionable and ecologically unacceptable, as hydraulic fracturing destroys ecosystems and pollutes water sources. the rapporteur also wants to liberalize the supply of energy in europe by removing the possibility for member states to set regulated tariffs or protectionist policies for their industries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because, despite the progress made in strengthening its infrastructure and diversifying its suppliers, the european union remains vulnerable to external energy shocks and geopolitical hazards. europe has succeeded in achieving food independence through the cap and must now do the same for its energy needs. the european energy agency will be a key tool in the purchasing power of europeans and a new cornerstone of effective european diplomacy.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the like almost all the baltic meps, the author of the report seems to be more motivated by resentment against russia than by concern for the real interests of our peoples. the text repeatedly accuses russia of being an "unreliable partner". however, during the debates in the itre committee, no member of parliament could give a single example of a contract which has not been respected by the russians. despite the sanctions imposed by the european union at the request of the united states, russia has increased the amount of gas it supplies directly to the eu by 10 gm3 to compensate for losses due to the crisis in ukraine, while the exploitation of the groningen field in the netherlands and uk production continue to decline. instead of promoting the import of north american shale gas and qatari lng, to move from a russian dependence to an american-qatari dependence, this report should have sought to promote the future sectors of biomethane and its derivatives. france is lagging behind in this sector, but we could probably draw inspiration from what our neighbours are doing, especially italy, which is leading the way in the biognv sector.
in writing. ‒ the author of this report, mr saudargas, who is fiercely hostile to russia, has presented a text that is clearly hostile to our russian partner, in defiance of geographical constraints (ease of transit) and geological constraints (available stocks) linked to energy supply. the report accuses russia of being an "unreliable partner" without giving any concrete examples. the aim of this report is clear: to reduce the european union's dependence on russia as much as possible and to turn to the united states in the run-up to the conclusion of the ttip. the report proposes the multiplication of liquefied natural gas terminals for the transport of us (shale gas) or qatari natural gas. this text will only serve the interests of some. the aim of liberalising the european market by "liberating" europe from russian gas control is likely to lead to higher prices for consumers (and thus to regulated prices) and to break up our industry for the sole benefit of short-term speculative markets. only the member states should be able to decide on their energy policy and on energy cooperation. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european energy security strategy. once again, this report is based on ideological motives. it is aimed at making the union energy independent of russia, so that it can turn to american imports. it is becoming urgent that the members of the majority should seek the interests of the citizens of the member states with the greatest consistency, taking into account the technical and geographical factors of imports. unlike those members who chose to demonstrate their friendship with the united states and their disagreement with russia, i chose to focus on those states which are able to supply energy to the french under the best conditions.
in writing. ‒ we need to establish a european strategy for energy security. an energy union is essential for the proper functioning of the single market and for the security of the union's member states. we cannot be exclusively dependent on third countries. that is why we must strengthen our energy production capacity, including nuclear power. projects such as iter must therefore be supported. research and innovation in the energy sector also need to be improved. since the text did not take these requirements into account, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i have strongly opposed this report which uses energy security issues in a scandalous way to wage a new battle against russia, which is also outrageously stated in the explanatory statement of this report. while russia is our main partner in energy supply - eu member states received 167 gm3 of russian gas in 2013 - meps claim that it is not a reliable partner, even though they are unable to cite a single example of a contract that has not been respected by the russian federation so far. the european union, through this report, therefore declares its preference for submission to the us multinationals - in the logic of ttip - turkish and qatari, which, it is true, have always shown unfailing reliability in respecting the interests of third countries. in this context, the report envisages an increase in the import of shale gas from american soil, a very ecological prospect which has pleased our green friends. finally, the report makes clear the desire to achieve the single energy market, to the detriment of the energy independence of the member states, but also of consumers.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report follows the adoption by the european commission of a european energy security strategy in may 2014 in the wake of the crisis in ukraine. energy security, which is the full dimension of the energy union project, must be based on three main and complementary actions, namely the limitation of energy demand, the increase in indigenous energy production and research and development in energy technologies. the integration of the internal energy market and the diversification of internal sources of supply should also be completed. i fully support these objectives, but the report proposed in plenary seemed prescriptive, unrealistic and limiting. the text largely limits the possibilities for strengthening european energy security by exploiting europe's indigenous resources. it also sets binding targets of 40% for energy efficiency by 2030. i am therefore in favour of a 30% target, which seems more realistic to me. for these reasons i voted against this own-initiative report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: with this vote, i supported the european commission's desire to put in place a clear strategy on energy security. it is essential that the european institutions commit themselves to a european energy union with defined guidelines. this european energy security strategy must be in harmony with an ambitious climate policy. i have regretted the inability of the european parliament to reach a firm agreement which led to the rejection of this report and deprived us of our voice on this subject.
in writing. - it is regrettable that this report has been rejected. energy security is essential for the union. at present, member states import 53% of the energy they consume. it is far too dependent on foreign countries. that is why we must move towards a genuine energy union to ensure our independence. we also need to diversify our sources of supply, with emphasis, of course, on the development of clean, renewable and innovative energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european energy security strategy. once again, this report is based on ideological motivations and stereotypes. it is aimed at making the union energy independent of russia, so that it can turn to american imports. it is urgent that the members of the majority should seek the interests of the citizens of the member states with the greatest consistency and logic, taking into account the technical and geographical factors of imports. unlike those members who chose to demonstrate their friendship with the united states and their disagreement with russia, i chose to focus on those states which are able to supply energy to the french under the best conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because, under the false pretext of diversifying the energy supplies of the eu member states, it aims to distance russia from our relations, whereas it should be a privileged partner.
in writing. - i abstained on that report. i support the idea of creating a european energy union based on close coordination between the member states, an integrated internal market, the development of low-carbon technologies, the search for energy efficiency and support for the competitiveness of our companies. the crisis in ukraine has reminded the european union of the importance of energy security and the crucial role it plays in strengthening europe's political and economic position. however, despite the difficult geopolitical situation between the european union and russia, i hope that we will remain open to dialogue with this major energy partner. in addition, in order to develop our energy independence, it is important that we do not close the door on indigenous energy production in europe. each country must remain free to decide whether to prohibit or permit the exploitation of these indigenous sources under strict and environmentally friendly conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text for two main reasons: the ideological and principled hostility towards russia it contains, and the interference in the policies of the member states it supports. the rapporteur was lithuania's foreign minister in the 1990s, which partly explains his characteristic russophobia. he also called for a complete shift towards the united states in order to end energy dependence on russia. he argues that the latter would be an unreliable partner, without ever giving a concrete example of a contract not respected. in particular, despite the tense geopolitical situation, russia has further increased its exports of natural gas to the eu countries. instead of relying on russian gas, the text wants europe to rely on us or qatari shale gas, which is geopolitically questionable and ecologically unacceptable, as hydraulic fracturing destroys ecosystems and pollutes water sources. the rapporteur also wants to liberalize the supply of energy in europe by removing the possibility for member states to set regulated tariffs or protectionist policies for their industries.
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague algirdas saudargas on the european energy security strategy. the report favours the escalation of tensions between russia and the european union by recalling that russia cannot be a reliable partner, while russia remains an indispensable partner in the field of energy. the report also proposed the phasing out of nuclear power plants, an unrealistic proposal as alternative energy sources would be highly co2-emitting and/or would compromise europe's energy independence. the report was rejected by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on the saudargas report on the european energy security strategy. while certain provisions of the report, such as the development of energy technologies or the diversification of sources of supply, contributed positively to the establishment of a european energy market, i considered that it also contained inappropriate provisions, such as recommending a moratorium in principle on the exploitation of shale gas or the outright rejection of nuclear energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is part of a hostile environment towards russia (the opening of proceedings against gazprom). it is stated that this country is an 'unreliable partner' without any real proof of this. the european union has never had to suffer from a breach of the contract with russia for the supply of gas. the aim is to end the contracts with russia and turn to the united states - a move which is part of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations. this commission proposal, apart from the desire to cut all ties of dependence with russia, will have negative consequences for consumers and the member states. the liberal policy on which this report is based will cause prices to rise and could endanger our industries (increased free competition) which will be left to speculation. in addition, the european union has an unacceptable desire to dictate the energy policy of the member states without leaving them the choice of their sources of supply. we are calling for the establishment of free interstate cooperation, by giving back energy sovereignty to the states.
in writing. - i voted against it. the strategy aims to shift the european union away from its dependence on russian energy by offering it as fodder to the united states and qatar. the strategy hopes to achieve the famous 'energy union' through a 'fully integrated internal energy market'. in fact, this strategy will lead to an increase in consumer prices (the end of regulated prices), the breakdown of our industry (the end of long-term supply contracts, free competition) and will deprive member states of the choice of their energy sources, suppliers and supply routes. we're against it.
in writing. ‒ the saudargas report is part of an overall strategy and provides answers to the major energy challenges facing europe today. the commission is therefore building on the foundations laid during the previous legislature, with ambitious binding targets for 2030: a reduction of at least 40% in greenhouse gas emissions, an increase of at least 30% in renewable energy production, and at least 40% in efficiency gains. the report highlights the poor performance of the european union in terms of energy efficiency in each of its three quantified objectives. he attributes this delay to the heating and gas crises in europe. in line with the convictions of our group and the french socialists, the report seeks to guarantee energy security by developing renewable energy sources, which have the advantage of being indigenous and clean. the text calls for transversal approaches, particularly in the field of transport, to meet these ambitions. i voted in favour of this report because it is ambitious. the opposite of much of the european right, desperately pro-business and antiquarian.
in writing. ‒ the text advocates the creation of an energy union. far from taking account of the environmental aspects of energy consumption, the text defends the emissions trading system as the panacea. however, this system has failed to engage europe in a real energy transition to replace most carbon-based energy with renewable energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. i am voting against this absurd text which is absolutely out of step with the fight against the ecological catastrophe.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur was lithuania's foreign minister in the 1990s, which partly explains his characteristic russophobia. he also called for a complete shift towards the united states in order to end energy dependence on russia. he argues that the latter would be an unreliable partner, without ever giving a concrete example of a contract not respected. in particular, despite the tense geopolitical situation, russia has further increased its exports of natural gas to the eu countries. instead of relying on russian gas, the text wants europe to rely on us or qatari shale gas, which is geopolitically questionable and ecologically unacceptable, as hydraulic fracturing destroys ecosystems and pollutes water sources. the rapporteur also wants to liberalize the supply of energy in europe by removing the possibility for member states to set regulated tariffs or protectionist policies for their industries. this report contains an ideological hostility towards russia and an interference in the policies of the member states which it supports. i voted against it.
in writing. beyond geopolitical considerations, this report, like the forthcoming report on the energy union, aims to free europe from russian gas dominance through liberalisation measures that will lead to higher prices for consumers (by regulating prices) and endanger our industry (by long-term supply contracts, in the name of free competition). this system will benefit the commodity financial markets. while continuing to promote submission to market rules, the union therefore intends to dictate to the member states their energy policy by depriving them of the choice of their energy sources, but also of their suppliers and their supply routes. this forced collaboration will result in an inextricable interdependence. we must give priority to free interstate cooperation and, to do so, return energy sovereignty to the states.
in writing. ‒ the report seems to be marked by a certain russophobia, which it emphasises over the basic constraints on energy supply, such as the geographical or geological factor (available stock). russia, which is considered unreliable without any other form of trial , must be set aside in order to reduce the union's dependence on moscow to the appropriate extent. the eu considers qatar to be much more attractive, and brussels is urging us to turn to the united states to conclude a major transatlantic trade agreement to increase the number of liquefied natural gas terminals to transport us and qatari shale gas. the european union, out of sheer russophobia, prefers to rely on a gas dictatorship, under the guise of liberalisation. all this will lead to higher prices for consumers, with the end of regulated prices for the benefit of speculative markets only. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text on the european energy security strategy. the text, which was the result of compromise with the s&d, greens, alde, gue, efdd and ecr groups, is too exclusively geared towards renewable energy sources, to the detriment of nuclear energy and conventional and non-conventional energy sources. there is a systematic opposition to the experimentation with shale gas and coal gas. in addition, the wording of certain paragraphs is contributing to increasing tensions between the union and russia, which i regret. i voted in favour of the amendment calling on the commission to examine possible solutions for the introduction of a carbon adjustment mechanism at the border. the aim is to create a level playing field between european producers and non-european producers, who are not subject to the same environmental requirements.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. this report follows the publication by the commission in may 2014 of its energy security strategy, which was to provide the union with a roadmap to strengthen its sources of supply and their security, thus contributing to the achievement of an energy union. it presents the priorities for internal and external development of energy security, such as the development of technologies or the diversification of sources, but omits aspects such as energy poverty, or access to energy as a common good and not just a consumer good. i do not want to put the future of european energy security in the hands of the dominant multinationals in this field, so i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the author of this report, mr saudargas, who is very hostile to russia, has presented a text which is clearly directed against a country, in spite of geographical constraints (ease of transit) and geological constraints (available stocks) linked to energy supply. the text accuses russia of being an "unreliable partner" without giving specific examples. the aim of this report is clear: to reduce the union's dependence on russia as much as possible and to turn to the united states in the run-up to the conclusion of the ttip. the text proposes the multiplication of lng (liquified natural gas) terminals, allowing the transport of american (shale gas) or qatari natural gas. it is not a question of serving the general interest but rather of serving particular interests. the aim of liberalising the european market by means of measures to 'liberate' europe from russian gas dominance is above all to increase prices for consumers (with the end in view of regulated prices) and to break up our industry for the sole benefit of short-term speculative markets, etc. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ today, the european union needs to ensure its energy security, especially in a geopolitical context that is currently unstable, especially with russia. this urgent matter was discussed by meps last wednesday. the report on the establishment of a european energy security strategy proposed measures to address the union's growing energy dependence. the members of the european parliament have rejected this report, and i voted against it too. the report was not balanced enough and proposed too much use of renewable energy. it is necessary to review this strategy and develop a more sustainable strategy based more on different energy sources in line with the realities.
in writing. ‒ the implementation of a common energy security policy, which is a key element of deeper european integration, has become all the more essential following the tensions we are experiencing with some of our suppliers, in particular russia. that is why i supported this motion for a resolution which, although not legally binding, was part of a growing awareness of the measures to be put in place: development of interconnection between the member states' networks, promotion of indigenous renewable energies, increase in energy efficiency through innovative systems. i did not, however, support the amendments to discard nuclear energy, which is a competitive element for industry, and low-carbon energy, which still plays an important role in producing electricity in europe, or shale gas, from which it is now known that there are less harmful ways of extracting it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european energy union. energy is a key policy for the preservation of the environment, for the climate, but also for reducing our energy dependence. dependence on one supplier is dangerous. the 2014 crisis in ukraine showed us that it is important for europe to complete its own single energy market, in our own interest and in the interest of future generations. the energy union is a global project that should provide european citizens with safe, sustainable and affordable sources of energy. the potential economic benefits to be derived from the completion of the energy market are estimated to be between eur 16 and 40 billion per year. we also recall that solidarity is a fundamental principle in the field of energy security. we therefore call for better communication and cooperation between member states.
in writing. ‒ this report is very explicitly part of this new lukewarm war being waged by the european union against our russian partner, in defiance of geographical constraints (ease of transit) and geological constraints (available stocks) linked to energy supply. russia is again presented as an unreliable partner, although no example can be given of non-delivery of the order. the main objective of the report is to reduce the union's dependence on russia as much as possible and it proposes, in particular, to turn to the united states in the context of the conclusion of the transatlantic treaty. more generally, it is a matter of supporting the completion of the single energy market to ensure that the commitments made by the commission in recent years are respected. beyond geopolitical considerations, this report claims to free europe from russian gas dominance by means of liberalization measures which will lead to an increase in prices for consumers (by regulating prices) and the breakdown of our industry (by long-term supply contracts, in the name of free competition), in favour of short-term speculative markets. this system will benefit the financial market for raw materials. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ energy is a key issue. the report presented to the european parliament is not satisfactory. it limits the sovereignty of the member states and attempts to force through a common energy policy for the benefit of a few huge companies which monopolize the exploitation and management of these resources. energy is a public good and policies concerning this resource must be geared to the needs of the population, both in terms of prices, which must be affordable for all, and also in terms of infrastructure, to enable everyone to have access to energy. it is therefore also essential to increase our commitment to the issue of energy poverty and to take all the necessary solidarity measures. finally, environmental and health issues are not taken into account, particularly with regard to shale gas from hydraulic fracturing. my group had tabled an amendment calling for the ban on this practice. this amendment was rejected. i therefore voted against this report and am pleased that it has been rejected and referred back to committee.
in writing. ‒ olaf, which has issued its annual report for 2014, is under fire from parliamentarians from several groups. the lack of transparency in the way olaf conducts its investigations raises serious questions about its independence from the eu's governing bodies. olaf tends to open too many investigations without having the necessary information or reasons. this draft resolution is the most critical of all the proposals concerning olaf. it called for the monitoring committee to be able to monitor the duration of investigations and for the information provided by olaf to the monitoring committee to be improved. it is also worth noting the close links between its director-general, mr kessler, and the president of the european parliament, mr schulz. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that olaf has three essential missions: to protect the financial interests of the european union, to detect serious misconduct in connection with the exercise of professional activities by members and staff of the institutions and bodies of the european union and to support the european institutions, and in particular the commission, in the development and implementation of anti-fraud regulations and policies.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the i voted in favour of this report which is very critical of this institution, in particular of the way in which olaf opens and conducts its investigations.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee is in line with the 2014 report of the supervisory committee warning against the practices of olaf, in particular in its way of conducting investigations. olaf, for example, would thus tend to prolong investigations without any real reason. this resolution encourages olaf to comply with the legal procedures provided for in the event of an investigation being opened. it also stresses the difficulty of determining whether the priorities of the investigation policy have been correctly identified and whether their application has had positive or negative consequences for the fight against fraud and corruption, which is highly regrettable. the resolution also proposes that the monitoring committee be able to monitor the duration of investigations and that the information provided by olaf to the monitoring committee be improved. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. the investigations carried out by the commission must be strictly in accordance with the legal framework on which they depend and must be based on precise, valid and justified grounds. in addition, in order to ensure the credibility and legitimacy of its results, the utmost transparency should be applied to the way in which the investigations are carried out. in particular, the duration of such periods must be clearly stated and any extension must be justified. however, i will be very vigilant and will oppose any creation of a european public prosecutor's office which would trample on the judicial sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the monitoring committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has all the necessary means at its disposal to combat any fraud attempt that may affect the european budget. however, it appeared that some of the statistical data transmitted by olaf to the monitoring committee were incorrect. the supervisory committee must be able to act independently of olaf. a more constructive dialogue between the supervisory committee and olaf is therefore needed to avoid a recurrence of such a situation. the management of the european agencies must be above reproach. the credibility of european governance is at stake. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which validates the conclusions made by the monitoring committee in its 2014 report. the resolution rightly raises some legitimate questions about the way olaf conducts its investigations. it should be recalled that in 2012, olaf, on the sole decision of its director-general, opened 423 cases on the same day, which casts doubt on the reliability of these investigations. in addition, the latter often extend over time, without any explanation being given and in a complete lack of transparency. it is these shadow areas that are driving the members of the committee on budgetary control, in particular, to want to give the monitoring committee the authority to investigate olaf's dubious practices. the resolution therefore calls for greater control of the institutions to facilitate the fight against corruption and conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows the 2014 annual activity report of the monitoring committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf), which raised serious concerns in parliament. the report states that there are problems with the independence of the supervisory committee, with olaf's compliance with the regulation governing it, with the working arrangements between olaf and its supervisory committee and with the fulfilment of olaf's primary mission of effectively protecting the union's financial interests. i think that the role of the olaf monitoring committee, which is intended to ensure that the procedures and principles governing the mission of this independent body are respected, should be clarified, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ a new action plan for the modification of the working arrangements of the european anti-fraud office is a necessity. better cooperation between olaf and its monitoring committee is needed to support the fight against fraud and corruption. the evaluation of open files needs to be improved to enable the monitoring committee to fulfil its mandate fully and under the best conditions. we call on the commission to facilitate the negotiations between olaf and its monitoring committee, in order to strengthen the independence, control capacity and efficiency of this institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. the investigations carried out by the commission must be strictly in accordance with the legal framework to which they relate and must be based on precise, valid and justified grounds. in addition, in order to ensure the credibility and legitimacy of its results, the utmost transparency should be applied to the methodology of the investigations. in particular, the duration of such periods must be clearly stated and any extension must be justified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it shows great legal and procedural rigour and aims to set a certain standard for olaf's work.
in writing. ‒ this draft resolution is the most critical of all the proposals concerning olaf. the report, which has just been published, is criticised by a large number of meps (epp, gue/ngl and greens/efa). many issues and a lack of transparency in the way olaf conducts its investigations raise serious questions about olaf's independence from the eu's governing bodies. olaf tends to open too many investigations without having the necessary information or reasons. it is also important to underline the close links between its director-general, mr kessler, and the president of the european parliament, mr schulz.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the annual report of the olaf monitoring committee. this report calls on the commission to play an active role in facilitating a constructive dialogue between the monitoring committee and olaf. the 2014 report highlighted that olaf manipulated its figures and statistics, thus distorting the supervisory committee's reading, which is obviously not acceptable, especially given olaf's vital mission. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the epp, greens and gue groups on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. this report raises serious problems with regard to the functioning of this monitoring committee, whose independence is not respected by olaf, in breach of its own regulation, in particular with regard to the absence of an evaluation of the initiation of investigations. that is why the resolution i voted for calls on the european commission to play an active role in this matter by facilitating a constructive dialogue between the monitoring committee and olaf, which protects the union's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it denounces the scandalous way in which olaf (the european anti-fraud office) has been conducting its investigations. i know this to be true, for i am persecuted by this organization myself.
in writing. - i voted yes. the resolution echoes criticisms already made by the monitoring committee in 2014. the commission has already been criticised for the way it conducts its investigations. i have decided, together with my colleagues, to support this resolution because it reminds olaf that it must also follow well-defined rules. the aim is to make him understand that he does not have all the powers and that his investigations must be based on concrete data. it is therefore appropriate to allow for better monitoring of olaf by the supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. this text rightly criticises the way olaf conducts its investigations and highlights the shortcomings of the system. we support this proposal because it requires olaf to comply with the legal provisions governing the opening of an investigation, which suggests that olaf tends to open investigations without the necessary evidence or justification. it also called for closer cooperation with the monitoring committee so that it could monitor the length of investigations (sometimes arbitrarily fixed) and for the information provided by olaf to be improved.
in writing. ‒ it is necessary to fight fraud, it must be done in the service of european citizens and therefore, independently, effectively and with respect for the protection of personal data of all citizens. as it stands, olaf (the european anti-fraud office) is unable to meet these requirements. the text mentions the conflict between olaf and its monitoring committee, which considers that it does not have the means to monitor olaf's actions. the resolution condemns this situation and calls on olaf to comply with its legal obligations when opening an investigation. i vote in favour of this, which seems to me to be the minimum.
in writing. ‒ olaf, which has issued its annual report for 2014, is criticised by a very large number of parliamentarians. many issues and a lack of transparency in the way olaf conducts its investigations raise serious questions about olaf's independence from eu governing bodies. olaf tends to open too many investigations without having the necessary information or reasons. they also called for the monitoring committee to be able to monitor the duration of investigations and for the information provided by olaf to the monitoring committee to be improved. it is also important to underline the close links between its director-general, mr kessler, and the president of the european parliament, mr schulz. while we see every day that mr schulz is a president of the european parliament who is biased against the fn, his links with the director-general of olaf are questionable, but also problematic. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is the subject of a report that is at least critical of its arbitrary practices in initiating and managing procedures and its lack of transparency. it is paradoxical that a body responsible for enforcing ethics within institutions should be reluctant to impose such discipline on itself. the criticisms made in this respect should therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee is in line with the 2014 report of the supervisory committee warning against the practices of olaf, in particular in its way of conducting investigations. it has many reservations about the opening and duration of investigations (which tend to be prolonged without any real reason). it strongly recommends that olaf comply with the legal procedures in place in the event of an investigation being opened. the anti-fraud body is sometimes subject to a certain degree of subjectivity or rushes to open an investigation, without the necessary information or reasons. the resolution also proposes to enable the monitoring committee to monitor the duration of investigations and to improve the information that olaf provides to the monitoring committee. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2014 annual report of the monitoring committee of the european anti-fraud office. the report highlights the shortcomings of olaf, which does not respect the independence of the monitoring committee, in breach of its own regulation. it stresses in particular the absence of an evaluation of the opening of the investigations and possible manipulation of the statistics on the duration of these investigations, which does not allow a proper assessment of the situation by the monitoring committee. the text calls on the commission to play an active role and to facilitate a constructive dialogue between the monitoring committee and olaf, whose role is to protect the union's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because there is a real problem within olaf. it is necessary that the supervisory committee and the director should have harmonized relations in order to put an end to the crisis affecting this body.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. this annual report contains a number of criticisms of the functioning of olaf, the body whose mission is to track and prevent fraud in the european union. the supervisory committee observed that there were questionable practices within the agency. since these revelations, cooperation between olaf and the committee on budgetary control has deteriorated. criticisms include that almost 90% of cases opened by olaf are not followed up with any recommendation, or that too much attention is paid to 'tobacco and counterfeiting' but too little to fraud at the level of the cap or the structural funds.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee is in line with the 2014 report of the supervisory committee warning against the practices of this body, in particular in its way of conducting investigations. it has many reservations about the opening and duration of investigations (which tend to be prolonged without any real reason). it strongly recommends that olaf comply with the legal procedures for opening an investigation, and i am concerned that such a basic recommendation should be made. the anti-fraud body may be somewhat subjective or rush to open an investigation when it has neither the necessary information nor the reasons. the resolution also proposes to enable the monitoring committee to monitor the duration of investigations and to improve the information that olaf provides to the monitoring committee. for these reasons, i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee. i voted in favour of this text. the report also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt and implement the measures necessary to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. this is all the more crucial as this office must set an example at union level. this report is a wake-up call for olaf and parliament will be following closely the work and results of this body.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which calls on the commission to take measures to improve the capacity of the monitoring committee to monitor the independence of olaf (european anti-fraud office), its investigative functions, the application of procedural safeguards and the duration of investigations, without jeopardising olaf's independence. the annual report of the olaf supervisory committee for 2014 raises serious problems, in particular the absence of an evaluation of the initiation of investigations. it is essential that olaf complies with the legal requirements to enable the supervisory committee to fulfil one of its essential functions, which is to monitor the duration of olaf investigations.
in writing. ‒ of all the motions for resolutions tabled, this is the most critical of olaf. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. the report raises doubts about the opening and duration of the investigations. these tend to be prolonged without valid explanations. the resolution stressed that it was olaf's responsibility to comply with the legal requirements governing the opening of an investigation. it therefore clearly points out that olaf tends to open investigations without having the necessary information or the necessary grounds. it called for the monitoring committee to be able to monitor the duration of investigations and for olaf to be able to improve the information it transmits to the monitoring committee. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution places hungary and its prime minister, viktor orban, in the position of defendants. the coalition led by viktor orban won the last general elections in hungary by a very large margin. elected on a clear programme in elections recognised as democratic by the international community, he is merely implementing that programme, thus respecting the will of the hungarian people. viktor orban is accused of consulting his people in order to organise referendums on immigration or the death penalty, or a public debate on the fight against terrorism. i am also in favour of the reintroduction of the death penalty and the stopping of immigration, as are my colleagues in the national front. this resolution urges the commission to take action against hungary. the consultation of the people would therefore be suspect in the eyes of the european parliament, which is supposed to be a democratic body. this resolution is a serious interference in the internal affairs of a member state and violates respect for hungarian national sovereignty. for all these reasons, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. nothing good in this resolution which in itself sums up the little value that the eurocrats give to democracy when they keep on using it. "no one is more enslaved than he who thinks himself free when he is not".
in writing. ‒ this european resolution, which was pushed by european technocrats and well-wishers, is really aimed at condemning viktor orban's hungary. this text is an insult to this sovereign state and a mockery of democracy, as it seeks to ignore the mass vote of hungarians for the incumbent government. meps seem shocked that viktor orban dares to hold a public consultation on issues such as the death penalty, terrorism or immigration. it is true that these subjects are automatically "taboo" for european federalists. the resolution calls on the union to monitor hungary, which is seen as a threat, a threat because the hungarian government refuses to bow to the dictates of brussels and the single minded. i therefore voted against this resolution because i am committed to the sovereignty of states and to democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in hungary. it is more important than ever to strengthen the application of fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy as a whole in our common space. in this context, the efta countries proposed the establishment of a pact for democratic governance aimed at respecting the values enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. i welcome the incorporation of this instrument in this resolution, which is very much needed in the light of recent events in hungary. the violation of press and media freedoms, the reform of the judiciary, which was totally politicized and led to the neutralization of the constitutional court, the national consultation on "immigration and terrorism in hungary", the project to re-introduce the death penalty... there is no shortage of complaints about the orban government's violations of our fundamental values. in this context, this resolution, which dedicates the european parliament's march forward to the defence of european values and to holding our institutions accountable for violations of fundamental rights, is a welcome one.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this shameful resolution on hungary which is an insult to any sovereign state and which sullies the word 'democracy'. meps are therefore shocked that viktor orban would dare to hold a public consultation on issues such as the death penalty, dangerously deviating from the eu's views on the subject. worse, orban dared to hold several other public debates, including one where he asked the public for their views on immigration and terrorism. i agree that it is not wrong to hold public debates, as long as they are in line with the union's vision. and it is wrong to dare to link immigration with insecurity: it is forbidden to tell any truth other than the official truth stamped european union. finally, hungary would be a threat that big brother, otherwise known as the european commission, would do well to monitor.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows the recent statements by the hungarian government in favour of a debate on the reintroduction of the death penalty. it should be reiterated in the strongest terms that the abolition of the death penalty is a major step in the development of human rights in europe and that the death penalty is contrary to the fundamental values and union law. as the hungarian prime minister viktor orban has finally declared that he does not wish to reinstate the death penalty in hungary, the call in this resolution to the commission to activate the first phase of the article 7 procedure seems to me excessive. furthermore, the request to the european commission to submit a proposal for the creation of a 'european semester' on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights seems to me inappropriate. such a procedure could replace or compete with the action of the court of justice of the european union ensuring respect for and application of the charter and the treaties signed by all member states. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ although the recent statements by prime minister viktor orban on the reintroduction of the death penalty and the launch of a national consultation on immigration and terrorism, which contained clear attacks on european institutions and eu policy in the questionnaire, called for a reaction from the european parliament, i regret that several political groups have once again used the european parliament's platform to turn a fundamental issue, the situation of the rule of law in hungary, into a plea against a member state, calling for its placement under the auspices of the european commission. it is a challenge to the fundamental principle of the sovereignty of the member states which will only strengthen the situation of deadlock and nationalist currents throughout europe instead of allowing the necessary dialogue and a real analysis of the situation to be established.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is a partisan and totally subjective challenge to a country whose political decisions come from a government elected through a fully democratic process. it is also an unacceptable attempt to undermine a sovereign country.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on hungary shows the europeanists' contempt for national sovereignty and democracy. the europeans want to stigmatize the policy of viktor orban, mainly because of his willingness to consult the hungarian people on important issues such as immigration, terrorism or the death penalty. although i do not share all of mr orban's political options, i can only approve of his use of the referendum to involve the hungarian people in decision-making on issues that will determine their future. unlike the europeans, i do not think that hungary is a threat and should be monitored. unlike them, i'm not afraid of the verdict of the ballot box. their rejection of democracy shows that it is the supporters of european integration who must be watched closely, lest they seize power at the expense of the european peoples.
in writing. ‒ once again, the european parliament has sounded the alarm about the situation of the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary, following the more than ambiguous statements of hungarian prime minister viktor orbán on the reintroduction of the death penalty and his tendentious public consultation linking immigration with terrorism and unemployment. i gave my full support to the resolution that was put to the vote. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union with the republic of moldova. it is regrettable that this resolution has not received wider support, and this is not a political game but the defence of a common base of european values on which no one should compromise. the credibility of the european project and the defence of the interests of all the citizens of the union are at stake.
in writing. ‒ i regret that once again the left-wing political groups have exploited a real issue, the situation of the rule of law in hungary, to sow confusion and create division. the recent reference by prime minister viktor orban to the reintroduction of the death penalty, which he will not follow up, and the launch of a popular consultation on immigration and terrorism, whose vehemence towards the european institutions is questionable and unjust, called for an expression of the european parliament. however, without any indulgence, the text voted was not intended to turn into an unconditional condemnation of hungary. it was even less ambitious to become a prosecutor against member states suspected of violating human rights and the rule of law with impunity. we will not spare a dialogue on respect for european values and principles. it's actually a healthy exercise. however, the surveillance of member states by a human rights agency composed of civil servants and the threat of triggering article 7 of the treaty are certainly not the response that our citizens so attached to the sovereignty of their country want.
in writing. ‒ this resolution slanders mr orban and hungary, whereas the political choices of this nation seem to me to be the most sensible among the members of the european union. meps supporting the resolution are shocked that mr orban is giving the hungarian people a voice through referendums on immigration, the death penalty and by organising public debates on topical issues such as terrorism or immigration, when this practice has only one name: democracy. while this resolution calls on the commission to take action against hungary, i regard this as a denial of democracy on the part of the union and have therefore voted against this resolution. i also believe that respect for national sovereignty is paramount and that this resolution - by encouraging the union's interference - violates this fundamental principle of international law. i also believe that hungary's position on immigration, terrorism and the death penalty is a wise one that we must support.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation in hungary. the resolution recalls that mr orban reiterated to the president of the european parliament his intention not to re-introduce the death penalty in his country, which would be a violation of the treaties and european values. the text also deplores the content of the questionnaire addressed to the hungarian population, in which the wording tends to make the union responsible for the influx of migrants into hungary, whose number has tripled in the space of a year. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the situation in hungary follows a multitude of positions taken by the european parliament following the regular violations of fundamental rights, violations of press freedom, and controversies deliberately triggered by its prime minister viktor orban. recently, he has made a name for himself on the question of the reintroduction of the death penalty, on the link between insecurity and migration, by claiming that he simply wants to open up the debate on these serious issues. the resolution recalls the 'values' of the european union, the rule of law, respect for fundamental rights and the right to asylum. it links them to article 2 of the treaty, which can suspend the voting rights of a member state if it does not respect these values. a threat often raised, but never used. the resolution also proposes a mechanism to monitor democracy and the rule of law in order to prevent violations of these values by giving the european union the means to issue warnings without consistency. i supported this proposal and voted for this resolution to denounce the attacks on journalists, minorities, especially the roma in hungary and more generally the harmful atmosphere that the hungarian government is instilling in its own country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is insulting to hungary and its president viktor orban. hungary is a sovereign state, viktor orban is a democratically elected president, and whatever reproaches are made to them must be made in a spirit of dialogue and respect. the european union had better sweep up its own backyard before it gives moral lessons to the whole world.
in writing. - i voted against it. this text is a blatant attack on the government led by mr orban. it is clearly being criticised for consulting its people on important matters which do not go along with the dominant ideology in the european union, such as the death penalty. he also has positions on immigration and terrorism which, again, do not go along with the views he seems obliged to defend within the union. it therefore appears that this resolution is a form of trial for heresy with the consequent threat of sanctions. the process is fast-tracked, as the conclusions of the inquiry are expected in september. this is unacceptable, because it is a real denial of democracy on the part of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. this resolution follows the bold decisions of hungarian president viktor orban to consult the public on the death penalty and to organise a referendum on immigration and terrorism. the union, which claims to defend democracy, is offended when people express themselves freely. this resolution suggests an audit of the situation in hungary and indeed in all the member states, whenever others have the foolish idea of consulting their peoples democratically. this proposal is an attack on the sovereignty of states and an insult to the very notion of democracy!
in writing. ‒ just a few days after the 70th anniversary of the victory over nazism, the hungarian prime minister came to defend the death penalty before the european parliament. he also launched a broad campaign against migrants through a national consultation on "immigration and terrorism". the european parliament had already informed the commission in 2012 of the need to respect the rule of law and fundamental rights. in this resolution parliament also proposed that a tool be set up to ensure respect for these democratic principles as a prerequisite for the difficult-to-use 'atomic bomb' of article 7 of the treaty (which may allow a country to be deprived of its right to vote in the council). the union is actually placing greater emphasis on respect for budgetary rules and the neoliberal approach. the commission has also condemned hungary for the independence of its central bank. but it allows the hungarian government to trample on the fundamental rights of workers and migrants with impunity. i shall vote for this resolution, however, to stress the need for a debate by the heads of state at the next council.
in writing. ‒ the parliamentarians supporting this resolution are outraged that prime minister orban is giving the hungarian people back their voice through referendums on immigration, on the death penalty and by organising public debates on current issues such as terrorism or immigration. this resolution calls on the commission to take action against hungary, and therefore it is a denial of democracy. respect for national sovereignty is paramount and this resolution, by favouring the intervention of the european union, violates this fundamental principle of international law. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the situation in hungary, concocted by the eurobate minds of meps who are constantly dressed in the uniform of the single thought, is an insult to the principles of sovereignty and democracy, while viktor orban's party enjoys the legitimacy of the polls and the still massive support of its population. the european union is showing its worst side, teaching the world lessons in morality while putting a modest veil over its own many uglinesses. the meps are shocked that a head of government dares to consult his people on the subjects of diverse and varied societies. how incongruous for these minds imbued with a despotism that claims to be enlightened. this lack of trust in the people, this permanent paternalism, which barely conceals a certain aristocratic hatred, is absolutely intolerable. there can be no "taboo" that the people cannot decide. but this is obviously a political maneuver to systematically criticise the hungarian government's refusal to bow to the brussels diktat. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the situation in hungary tabled by the socialist, green, liberal and gue groups, which was not supported by my epp group. certain provisions of this text, which go so far as to provide for the possibility of suspending the voting rights of the representative of the hungarian government in the council, are quite excessive and inadmissible. i also refused to condemn the legitimate doubts and questions of the hungarian people in the face of the unprecedented migration crisis facing our continent. as a reminder, hungary is the second country after sweden that receives the highest rate of asylum applications in proportion to the number of inhabitants. the number of migrants entering hungary has increased from around 2,000 in 2012 to more than 50,000 since january 2015. 95% of them enter the country through the border with serbia, which is not a member of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the values of the european union are based on dignity, respect for human rights, the legality of rights, freedom, non-discrimination, etc. but also because abolition of the death penalty is a prerequisite for membership of the european union, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is an integral part of the hungarian constitution. the fact remains that the european parliament would benefit from adopting a more respectful tone towards a european leader who enjoys the popular anointing of a large part of the hungarian population.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. this resolution follows the outrageous comments by hungarian prime minister victor orban, who called for a 'death penalty debate' in his country, and the launch of a wide public consultation linking the issue of migration to that of security. the resolution mentions the provisions of article 7 teu on the obligation of the eu member states to respect the union's values under penalty of sanctions, and calls on the commission and the council to pay greater attention to the situation in the country. i voted in favour of this joint resolution because i maintain that the death penalty is incompatible with respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ this european resolution, which was pushed by european technocrats and well-wishers, is really aimed at condemning viktor orban's hungary. this text is an insult to a sovereign state and a mockery of democracy by trying to ignore the mass vote of hungarians for the incumbent government. meps seem shocked that viktor orban dares to hold a public consultation on issues such as the death penalty, terrorism or immigration. it is true that these subjects are fundamentally "taboo" for european federalists. the resolution calls on the european union to monitor hungary, which is seen as a threat because the hungarian government refuses to bow to the dictates of brussels and the single minded. i voted against this resolution, of course, because i am above all a defender of the sovereignty of states and peoples, that is to say, of democracy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution condemning the repeated statements by the hungarian prime minister, viktor orbán, on the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary. the death penalty is incompatible with the values on which the european union is founded, and its reintroduction would be a violation of the treaties and the european charter of fundamental rights. we also denounce the public consultation on immigration launched by the hungarian government, whose content and wording establish a direct link between migration and security problems. we must keep a close eye on the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary, because it must be clear to everyone that these principles, which are at the heart of european engagement, are not being played with.
in writing. - this resolution is abhorrent to hungary and an insult to any sovereign state. it blames viktor orban for holding public consultations (referendum) and public debates, particularly on immigration and terrorism. i oppose this text because nothing is more precious than the independence and sovereignty of a state.
in writing. ‒ the proposed report on the situation in turkey is clearly in favour of turkey's accession to the european union. this accession is considered in this report to be the most appropriate way forward for eu-turkey relations. some of the amendments proposed, such as recognition of the territorial integrity of cyprus, regret for turkey's behaviour towards greece and condemnation of turkey's refusal to reopen an orthodox seminary, are rather in the right direction. however, turkey has an ambiguous policy, at the very least being complacent or even complicit in islamist terrorism, notably through its lax attitude towards the islamic state group on its border with syria. turkey is not part of europe in any geographical, cultural, religious, historical or civilization sense. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, as did the majority of my group. turkey has no intention of joining the european union. i would like to remind you that turkey has been a member of the union's customs union since 31 december 1995. as such, it enjoys the same trade advantages as eu member countries, which has caused the relocation of many industrial activities from france to this country (notably in the television sector).
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the i voted against this report which still gives turkey hope that it will one day be able to join the european union, something the people of europe do not want.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the 2014 follow-up report on turkey and details the many developments in turkey in relation to its status as a candidate country for accession to the european union. even if this report contains criticisms of turkey and the erdogan administration, particularly on respect for fundamental rights, freedom of expression (especially the threats faced by journalists by the authorities in power), human rights and justice, we cannot deny that the union and the report remain in favour of enlargement and the arrival of turkey within the union. turkey cannot therefore join the union. the recent elections in turkey, which many organizers believe were partly rigged, do not give the ruling party, the akp, a majority, but they do send a signal of the will for democratic change in this country where conservative islam is trying to gain a foothold. finally, turkey still refuses to recognise the republic of cyprus and its relations with armenia remain more than tense. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2014 progress report on turkey. this text is nonsense: it still recommends that this country should join the european union. the results of the elections in the member states show that the union no longer covers any cultural and civilizational reality. the message from the citizens of the nations of europe is clear: they do not want this enlargement. no one understands the reason for it. on the other hand, many of us are aware of the serious disadvantages, particularly in terms of migration and geopolitics, which would result from turkey's accession to the union. in addition, the current climate forces us to be reasonable and to strengthen the protection of our citizens. it is through the optimal management of our borders, not their opening up which would only harm our national economies, our identities and our cultural integrity.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of the 2014 follow-up report on turkey. i voted against this report because it mentions the opening of negotiating chapters for turkey's accession to the european union. i have always opposed turkey's accession to the union. turkey is not european and has no intention of being so. we must stop making mistakes and at the same time stop giving the turkish people false hopes of membership.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report, which is typical of the europeanist ideology of enlargement at all costs. the report expresses this very clearly, stating that enlargement is an essential means of promoting peace. is there a geographical limit to the european union or do the parliamentarians intend to extend their anti-democratic organisation to the realization of a world government? the question of whether turkey is european is not even raised in this report, which seeks to support turkey's accession to the union at all costs, in particular by speeding up the visa-free regime. the rapporteur also makes it clear that the aim of integrating turkey would be to get rid of russia's strategic partnership in terms of energy supply. that is why i am proud to be part of this delegation of seven patriotic members of parliament who, together with marine le pen, have tried to oppose this text by tabled ing 28 amendments in committee on the subject.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows the adoption of the 2014 follow-up report on turkey. while the text echoes the current problems of press freedom, the independence of the judiciary and the remaining reforms needed to be carried out by turkey, it also calls on the european commission and the council to open new negotiating chapters, namely chapters 23 (judiciary and fundamental rights) and 24 (justice, freedom and security) as soon as the established criteria have been met. as i am firmly opposed to turkey's accession to the european union and therefore to the opening of new chapters, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. i abstained on this 2014 follow-up report on turkey's progress. it is certainly important to point out shortcomings such as developments in turkey and to call for more efforts to bring about democratic reforms. however, i am opposed to any initiative to open negotiating chapters for its accession to the european union. turkey has no intention of joining the european union.
in writing. ‒ at the present time, deepening the european union, and in particular greater integration of the euro area, is far preferable to any enlargement. we therefore consider that turkey's accession to the union should not be on the agenda of the european calendar. on the other hand, we must cooperate with that country, particularly in trade, customs and security matters. in this area, we need a much deeper partnership, whether it is in the management of migration flows or in the fight against daesh.
in writing. ‒ in a newsworthy development marked by the decline in the influence of the akp, the islamist-conservative party of recep tayyip erdogan, and the arrival of 78 kurdish mps in the turkish parliament, i voted in favour of the follow-up report on turkey for 2014. i think this report is well balanced. while stressing the strategic role that turkey can and must play in the european partnership, it stressed the flagrant violations of fundamental rights, particularly those relating to the press and freedom of expression. in 2014, reporters without borders named turkey as one of the countries where journalists face the most threats and physical attacks. it also urged turkey and armenia to normalise their relations by ratifying, without preconditions, the protocols on the establishment of diplomatic relations, by opening the border and by working to improve their relations with regard in particular to cross-border cooperation and economic integration. i hope this is a first step towards the recognition of the armenian genocide, whose sad centenary has just been commemorated.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the follow-up report on turkey in 2014. this text is nonsense: it wants to add another actor to an already too complex gigantism. the results of the elections in the member states show that the union no longer covers any cultural and civilizational reality. the message from the citizens of the nations of europe is clear: they do not want this enlargement. no one understands its usefulness or coherence. on the other hand, many of us are aware of the serious disadvantages, particularly in terms of migration, which would result from turkey's accession to the union. in addition, the current climate forces us to be reasonable and to strengthen the protection of our citizens. it is through the optimal management of our borders, not their opening up which would only harm our national economies, our identities and our cultural integrity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is exclusively in favour of turkey's membership of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this annual report on turkey's progress for the simple reason that turkey has not made progress. the situation in turkey has worsened since the so-called "moderate" islamists came to power in 2002, to the point that the country is now a sanctuary for islamist terrorism, with jihadists and weapons being transported daily to syria and iraq. this has not prevented the europeans from recently opening the 17th chapter of the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union. i note, however, that a recital in the preamble to the proposal refers to a 'long process with an uncertain outcome'. i cannot imagine that turkey can join the european union if it supports islamist terrorism, discriminates against the kurdish population and still does not recognise the armenian genocide.
in writing. ‒ in line with my convictions and campaign commitments, i voted against the amendments in this report which suggested that a resumption of the negotiation process for turkey's accession to the european union was possible. i am firmly opposed to turkey's accession to the union and i am in favour of a lasting pause in the enlargement process. we must be clear and firm with turkey; the european union is not a desirable objective, although closer cooperation is possible. turkey is not part of europe, either geographically, culturally or historically. however, i abstained in the final vote, as the report contains a number of very strong provisions against turkey, including condemnation of human rights and freedom of expression violations in the country, rejection of the settlement policy used in cyprus, and calling on turkey to recognise the armenian genocide.
in writing. ‒ turkey is an indispensable neighbour of the eu, and we would benefit from clarifying our position, which is that turkey itself has no more interest than vocation in joining the european union, a reality that will allow us to build a healthy and unambiguous relationship. on the contrary, this report is clearly in favour of turkey's accession to the eu. indeed, this accession is considered in this report to be the most appropriate way for eu-turkey relations. i have therefore decided to vote against this report. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european union's accession to the european union. since the primary aim of this report is to bring turkey into europe, i cannot vote in favour of this report.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i abstained on the resolution on the follow-up report on turkey for 2014. the motion for a resolution congratulates turkey for hosting the 1.6 million syrian and iraqi refugees. it also points to the efforts to be made in relation to relations with cyprus and to certain measures taken by the government against freedom of the press and the plurality of opinion. these actions make it impossible for the time being to have a dialogue on turkey's possible accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european parliament's follow-up report on turkey in 2014. the report made positive recommendations, for example calling on turkey to put its reform process at the centre of domestic policy choices and to make an unequivocal commitment to respect democratic values and principles. however, by calling for the opening of negotiating chapters with turkey in the enlargement process, this report went against my firm opposition to the integration of that country into the european union. that is why i have chosen to reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this annual monitoring report assesses the progress made in turkey on the 'acquis communautaire', i.e. a body of legislation protecting fundamental freedoms but also market freedom. the report supports and encourages turkey's efforts towards minorities, notably the kurds and the roma. he looks back at the events in taksim square that took the lives of 12 people and the ensuing procedural fiasco, as well as the censorship of the press. the soma and ermenek mining tragedies and the steel workers' strikes are also mentioned, and the report rightly calls for turkey to comply with ilo standards. however, this text gives only a partial overview of the situation. no reference to the election period is made despite intimidation, attacks by opposition party activists, and the lack of reaction from the authorities. these pressures must be denounced, especially as we enter a post-election period of risk. nor is there any mention of turkey's role in the syrian conflict. finally, the cyprus question was completely ignored. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it confirms the prospect of turkey's accession to the union. this is an incredible prospect, given that turkey has invaded cyprus, occupies part of the island, and plays a very ambiguous role in relation to daesh. turkey is not a european country in cultural terms.
in writing. - i voted against it. there are some good things in this text, such as the request to the turkish government to ensure the safety and respect of the christians in that country, the criticism of its bad relations with greece and its behaviour towards cyprus, whose territorial integrity must be preserved. it is also recalled that european companies face a number of difficulties in turkey. but other requests are unacceptable. i am a strong supporter of national sovereignty and i am opposed to the european union's attempts to interfere in matters of justice and environmental policy in particular. it is clear that this report is a step towards turkey's accession to the european union, which is considered to be 'the most appropriate way for eu-turkey relations'. i'm totally against it.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the overall objective of this report is to work towards turkey's future membership of the european union as this would be 'the most appropriate way for eu-turkey relations'. although some good amendments were tabled, notably in favour of the recognition of the armenian genocide by the turks or to recall that any future accession to the union must be approved by all member states, the final text remains unacceptable. we are firmly opposed to turkey's accession to the european union and reject all attempts to encourage this process.
in writing. ‒ the commission and parliament are pushing for more cooperation with turkey. it is the only leverage found by a union torn between its support for free trade, the security challenges in syria and iraq, and the violations of fundamental freedoms in turkey. except that erdogan is not likely to worry as long as his access to the european market is assured, and there is no threat of that in this resolution. i am in any case opposed to any enlargement which parliament advocates at the expense of permanent structural reforms. injunctions on political reform will have no resonance in this context. as for the denunciation - which i support - of the occupation of northern cyprus, it is unfortunately only one of many, alongside un resolutions. this was not a problem when accession negotiations with turkey were opened in 2005. the european union's preference for free trade over respect for international law is a typical example. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the proposed report on the situation in turkey is clearly in favour of turkey's accession to the union. indeed, this accession is considered in this report as the most appropriate way for eu-turkey relations. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european union's accession to the european union. however, it is important to remember that turkey is allowing daesh terrorists into syria and iraq. turkey does not meet any of the criteria for possible eu membership, whether geographically, culturally, religiously, historically or civilisationally. since the primary aim of this report is to bring turkey into the european union, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the 2014 follow-up report on turkey reflects developments in the country. turkey is a candidate country for membership of the european union. despite some criticism of the imperfections of democracy in turkey, notably freedom of expression, respect for fundamental and human rights, and the independence of the judiciary, the report remains broadly in favour of turkey's accession to the european union. the united states is also keen to see this enlargement, as is shown by a recent statement by president obama, who is pushing for turkey to be integrated into the union, because it is a member of nato and would serve its interests. i am opposed to turkey's accession to the union and find it scandalous to project on that country a future integration largely rejected by the peoples of europe.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on the follow-up to the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union. i do not agree with the text, which encourages the turkish government to speed up the pace of the accession negotiations. turkey is meant to be a great partner of the european union but not to be part of it.
in writing. ‒ this report provides an overview of turkey's progress in 2014. i abstained in the final vote on this report, which contains very strong provisions on turkey. however, until economic and social integration is a reality, enlargement of the european union is not possible. there are conditions for accession to the european union which turkey still does not fulfil. for the future of eu-turkey cooperation and for the good of both sides, turkey must put the reform process at the heart of its national priorities.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. while it is important for turkey to move closer to european standards in governance (political, economic, social, etc.), this cannot be done with the aim of accession.
in writing. this annual report assesses turkey's progress, which was very meagre this year, given the difficulties encountered in the negotiations. the report makes the mistake of celebrating progress that does not exist, such as good relations with the kurds or the integration of the roma in turkey, even though their respective situation remains deplorable. despite this, the resolution does contain some constructive criticism of the events in taksim square, as well as turkey's advances on workers' rights. i therefore abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ this proposal on the 2014 follow-up report on turkey details the many developments in turkey in relation to its status as a candidate country for accession to the european union. although the report contains some criticisms of turkey and the erdogan administration, particularly on respect for fundamental rights, freedom of expression (for example, threats to journalists by the authorities in power), human rights and justice, it is clear that the text is still in favour of enlargement of the union and the arrival of turkey within it. although the recent elections in turkey, which many organizers believe were partly rigged, did not give the ruling party, the akp, a majority, they did send a signal of the will for democratic change in a country where conservative islam is increasingly trying to take root. but turkey still refuses to recognise the republic of cyprus, its relations with armenia remain more than strained and its attitude towards the islamic state poses a serious problem. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ as part of the enlargement policy, the commission publishes an annual follow-up report on the negotiations for each candidate. meps adopted the follow-up report on turkey but the country still needs to continue its reform efforts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. i welcome the progress made and encourage the country to continue along this path. however, i abstained on this text because i am opposed to turkey's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report is once again in favour of turkey joining the european union, a prospect that is totally unthinkable. its accession is considered to be "the most appropriate way for eu-turkey relations". i therefore vote against this text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague mr paşcu's report is irresponsible. let's talk about the law and let's talk about crimea. you talk about illegal annexation, but in the name of what? firstly, there was an illegal coup d'état, which was actually fomented by the united states, and mrs nuland is not hiding it. so there is no rule of law anymore. there is also a people who, in accordance with international law, freely chose to return to the russian homeland. a homeland he should never have left. the forbes report and the american media emphasized last week that more than four-fifths of the population of crimea is fully satisfied with this situation. this report concludes that the us executive is lying to its own people and to europe. the report was written with a vengeful and belligerent spirit. instead of being the belligerent voice of the united states, which wants to break europe in two and build a new berlin wall, this parliament should support peace and ask kiev to stop bombing civilian populations. i was in lugansk when they bombed that city. they started it! i have to say that i am not in favour of the idea of a european parliament. if a new world war comes to mourn this continent, do not think, dear colleagues, that history will forget you. the nations will come to you in judgment and you will be found guilty of the millions of deaths that have resulted. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". first of all, there were more than 6,000 deaths. i think, based on the information available, we are closer to 10,000 dead, most of whom were mourned in the east. you should know that it is the so-called rebellious part that has suffered the most and has suffered the most deaths. it is also worth noting that, as if by chance, the asylum seekers have taken refuge in russia. of the one million people who left ukraine, 750,000 are currently in russia. that's the reality. they do not see russia as the aggressor, but rather they seek protection from russia.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, since our last debate, following president nkurunziza's announcement that he intends to run for a third term, the violence has continued to worsen: several dozen deaths are to be deplored and more than 90 000 burundians have fled the country, journalists and opposition leaders being the first victims. on may 23 last year it was said zedi feruzi, leader of a small opposition party, was assassinated. today, the main opposition leaders are either abroad or in hiding. the elections were postponed in extremis at the beginning of june. the election commission has issued a new timetable that will settle nothing. the commission is totally disqualified because two of its members are absconding and it must take its decisions by a four-fifths majority. the opposition immediately rejected the new timetable and set several conditions for the next elections, including the establishment of a new electoral commission and the disarmament of pro-government militias, including the imbonerakure. the burundian authorities are hiding behind institutional falsehoods, claiming that for constitutional reasons the elections can no longer be postponed. has the international community mobilized enough? it is true that the cae has asked for the postponement of the elections. does the european union's electoral mission still have meaning? can it still declare itself ready to deploy if the necessary conditions for peaceful, inclusive and credible elections are met? given the violence and the timing, it's impossible. the un special envoy is increasingly being challenged and the burundian authorities remain deaf. the fragile balance of arusha is more threatened than ever and the country is at risk of plunging into civil war once again. the rise in tensions is indeed accompanied by worrying ethnic rhetoric. the protest movement is presented as a tutsi cabal, that is to say. if the country is 50% dependent on international aid, should the european union not also use financial pressure? shouldn't the eu funds - over 400 million - be redirected towards civil society, as the belgian government has just done? there is an urgent need for concrete action to prevent a new massacre.
madam president, since 1972 civil war has raged in burundi, with too few periods of peace. as in neighbouring rwanda, the majority hutu and the minority tutsi perpetrate massacre after massacre, reminding us that multiethnic societies are often multi-conflict societies. the ethnic and political subdivisions of these two camps, which are far from homogeneous, do not solve anything. however, the situation had calmed down in recent years, in particular thanks to the efforts of former president pierre buyoya, a tutsi who had made peace with the hutus through the arusha accords. unfortunately, in seeking a third presidential term, pierre nkurunziza has revived old opposition, unlike the wise buyoya, who had been able to give up his seat. mr nkurunziza seems to want to cling to power, even though the constitution forbids him from running for a third term. the fire that burns under the ashes may well start again, but apart from the fact that i challenge the european union's right to intervene, which it abuses to the detriment of the member states - the hungarians know something about this - i am particularly concerned about the capacity of the european institutions to act effectively in resolving such complex and far-reaching conflicts.
mr president, a resignation at the fifa summit will not be enough. a vast system of corruption is being uncovered, which lovers of sport and the common good cannot tolerate. for years, there have been serious suspicions about the motives that led fifa to award qatar, a gas emirate with no sporting tradition, a competition as important as the world cup. everything must be settled by 2022 and the world cup should be awarded to another country in order to send a clear signal against corruption, but also because it is morally unworthy to condone the practices of the islamist dictatorship of qatar small country regularly accused of financing terrorism. this dictatorship leaves no rights to women, it despises and persecutes homosexuals, condemned to prison and flogging. this slave dictatorship is blamed by ngos for the deaths of thousands of nepalese and indian workers on the world cup construction sites. it is a tyrannical country that seeks to intimidate our democracies by prosecuting those who dare to criticize it, including parliamentarians - today politicians, tomorrow journalists and human rights activists. a dictatorship that attacks when it fails to corrupt, an authoritarian theocracy that uses its dollars to buy consciences. let's reject this submission. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue cardboard". dear colleague, qatar has issued a judicial fatwa against you. have you heard of the letter you sent to the president of the french republic on this subject?
answer is "blue cardboard". no, i haven't heard from that letter yet, actually. it is quite surprising that he has not yet replied. i wonder if the writing of the letter is not taking place in an office of the qatari embassy in paris.
mr president, the revelations about the existence of a system of corruption at the highest level of fifa seriously damage the image of international football, especially since the sums involved are colossal. there's talk of a $1.6 million embezzlement for credit card charges and personal loans involving the former fifa vice president. there is still talk of egypt paying $7 million in 2004 in exchange for votes. justice must investigate and clean the stables of augia from the football business once and for all in order to restore to this sport all its letters of nobility. but it must not be held hostage to geopolitical calculations that would target russia, the country hosting the next world cup in 2018. finally, if there is to be a suspension of candidacy, as the chairman of the fifa compliance committee has advocated, it must be aimed first and foremost at qatar, a country which funds islamist terrorism and allows multinationals to practice modern slavery of thousands of workers on the world cup construction sites.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the opening ceremony of the first european games will take place in a few hours. they will be held in baku, azerbaijan what a symbol! ilham aliyev has ruled the country with an iron fist since 2003 and intends to make it a showcase to restore the badge of his regime. almost half the state budget was spent on this. but human rights activists, who denounce this situation, come to disturb his beautiful scenario. the bank accounts of ngos have been frozen, their lawyers harassed, their leaders imprisoned. one of the most well-known cases is that of leyla yunus, a fierce government critic who was arrested in july 2014, days after she called for a boycott of the games. she was, in fact, a finalist for the sakharov prize. his probationary detention is to officially end after the games; that's a funny coincidence. her health is in serious condition, she has no access to the medication she needs, she has lost 16 kg since her arrest. we promised to follow up on her situation. we can also mention the lawyer intigam aliev, anar mammadli, the journalist khadija ismailova, emin huseynov, who took refuge in the swiss embassy, and many others. madam minister, you say that you hope that dialogue with the azerbaijani authorities will improve the human rights situation. the negotiations on the association agreement have been stalled for three years. what miracle do you expect in the next few hours? you're announcing a new executive for the next presidency. that's not the answer we're looking for. you tell us you hope the prisoners will be treated well. these are human rights defenders, journalists, ngo representatives who are in prison. we must demand their immediate release. your answer, madam minister, which puts the question of sport first on the economic side, is vague and cannot satisfy me. i am in favour of an institutional boycott of these games, as many ngos are calling for. it's the best way to avoid endorsing the regime.
in writing. the baku european games are european in name only. this year, azerbaijan will host the european games and will invest more than one billion euros in them, despite the many problems facing the country. there is a lot of waste and corruption, 50% of the students have a very low educational level, living conditions are sometimes difficult and the price of medicines (often fake) is far too high for a population that needs them. as with the awarding of the 2022 world cup to qatar or the summer olympics to china, this award allows an autocratic regime such as azerbaijan to redeem itself and legitimize itself. however, while refusing to interfere, i note a deteriorating situation in terms of freedom of expression (ranked 162/180 by rsf) and endemic corruption (ranked 29/100 by transparency international). in recent years, it has asked the osce to close its office in baku, banned several european journalists from the games and jailed journalist khadija ismailova, the author of several books on state corruption.
in writing. this text seems to me rather inappropriate and, to put it bluntly, smoky. indeed, major sporting events are not designed to "advance the protection and promotion of human rights", when these generous principles are flouted in their own country of origin. there are other points that have caught my attention. on the one hand, the massive corruption that is seen in the designation of the host cities or countries, the clearest example being the 2022 football world cup in doha, qatar. this week's debate on fifa should keep us on our toes. on the other hand, our parliament could ask itself about the place of sport in our society. these are games, like the games that entertained the roman plebs in the lower empire, a consumption of spectacle far more than the exercise of effort by the citizens themselves. let us therefore let azerbaijan give its european games the meaning it wants and let us care about the practice rather than the consumption of sport in our societies.
author. mr president, the unesco heritage city of palmyra is first and foremost a symbol. it is the symbol of our cultural heritage and our civilization. it is the place of convergence of diverse civilizations of the middle and near east, a place of progress of the mind and tolerance, as well as the place of origin of freedom of thought and expression. by seizing the ancient city of palmyra on 21 may, massacring hundreds of people there, as well as in iraq, elsewhere in syria and libya, the islamic state group is once again demonstrating its will to destroy and annihilate any culture, religion or ideology that is different from its own. the origins of our civilisations are being destroyed, local populations and christian religious minorities, among others, are living in terror, historical heritage is being destroyed, cultural assets are being stolen and sold to finance terrorist actions, and the humanitarian situation is continuing to deteriorate. this is a serious emergency. when will the european union finally take concrete action? it's time we took responsibility. our values, our civilization, our concept of tolerance and human rights are at stake. what does the high representative intend to do and what are her concrete plans? we are not here to simply speak out, but to act.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we have not signed and, a priori, we will not vote on this joint resolution. the question of heritage is not the only issue at stake. the situation in syria is presented in a binary way, concealing in particular the responsibility of certain so-called western governments for the chaos that now reigns in that region. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices, but is instead able to play a part in the development of the european union. not to mention the issue of arms sales and oil. the conflict has killed hundreds of thousands and displaced millions of people, while the union is wavering in its international responsibility, here and there. progressives and democrats have been abandoned in syria. mazen darwish, as well as hani al-zitani and hussein ghareer are symbols of this. by the time the red carpet was rolled out to bashar el-assad, they were already fighting for freedom of speech. compared to them, this resolution is very weak.
mr president, i would like to express a different view from that of our colleague mr smith, who said that the syrian regime should not be seen as evil. my dear colleagues, we are doing politics. we are not drawing an ideal, disembodied world that conforms to our desires in this comfortable assembly. the policy of the lesser evil is the one pursued by the anglo-saxons in alliance with the soviet union to destroy the hitler regime. it is clear that the authoritarian regimes in iraq, libya and syria, while very imperfect and very objectionable, were nevertheless protective of religious minorities and relatively tolerant of women's rights. so when there is no alternative, you have to actually rally behind the policy of the lesser evil. i'm not familiar with the case of mr. mazen darwish. i am very much in favour of his release, but i have the impression that it is being used as a kind of alibi to restore a false balance. independent european journalists are much safer, however, when they are in the ranks of president bashar al-assad's regular army than when they investigate on the side of the islamists.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the current situation in syria is most alarming. the city of palmyra, which fell to the islamic state on 21 may, is now being plundered of its cultural treasures, the illicit purchase and sale of which is helping to finance terrorist organisations. the european union must fight against such acts of destruction in order to preserve an essential cultural heritage, which is listed as a unesco world heritage site. we must also act in the face of the growing violence against the syrian people. more than 220,000 people have been killed since the conflict began in 2011. the european union must strive to find a lasting political solution. this effort cannot be achieved without the cooperation of european partners as well as local and non-governmental actors.
the agenda calls for the debate on eight motions for resolutions on paraguay: legal aspects of early pregnancy (2015/2733)).
author. madam president, i will save you some time, because i have prepared a one-minute speech. a ten-year-old girl was raped by her stepfather and became pregnant. the paraguayan authorities, who were unable to protect her from her rapist when they became aware of the situation, prohibited her from terminating the pregnancy, although her mother had requested it, on the grounds that her health was not in danger. abortion is strictly prohibited in paraguay, regardless of the situation, and therefore including in cases of rape or incest, except in cases where there is imminent danger to the mother. neither the opinion of the director of the hospital where the girl was, nor that of the un expert group specially dispatched to the scene, nor even the statistics proving that the risk of maternal mortality is four times higher among adolescent girls under the age of 16, could do anything about it. this is not an isolated case: two children under the age of fourteen give birth every day in paraguay. yes, mr preda, the vast majority of latin american countries criminalize abortion and we condemn it globally. defending women's right to control their own bodies is a constant battle, here and elsewhere. but when this right is denied to a ten-year-old girl who was raped by her own stepfather, a sense of inhumanity and anger prevails. such matters are not open to political polemics.
madam president, a ten-year-old girl who was raped in an incestuous context would, according to the facts reported, be obliged to keep her child. however, the paraguayan criminal law would allow, as the simone veil law in france did when it was enacted, to carry out a premature termination of pregnancy legally if the mother is in real danger, which is clearly the case, given the age of this girl and her anatomy barely reaching puberty. these dramatic cases must find a legal solution. on the contrary, and it is your resolution that forces us to do so, we should ask ourselves whether the practice of premature abortion, except in cases of medical necessity, is being legally authorized without control. it is a deeply shocking act for the woman. forcing her to do so is also a violation of her rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in nepal following the earthquakes (2015/2734 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the situation in nepal since the terrible earthquake is critical. the thousands of bereaved families must be supported by international solidarity and every sovereign state can take part in this. that is why qatar's attitude, refusing to allow thousands of nepalese workers to return to their country to attend the funeral of their relatives who died after the earthquake, must be strongly condemned by the international community. this scandal has put qatar's bid for the 2022 world cup into question. the total impunity of this emirate must finally end.
in writing. ‒ this report is a collection of puns and exaggerations. russia is allegedly responsible for "the annexation of crimea" but also for "the escalation of military violence in crimea". the main source of this text is a report by nato, a military organization whose purpose is to fight against russia. the european union, by not recognizing the referendum of 16 march 2014, denies the people of crimea the right to self-determination, denies democracy and the right of peoples to self-determination. this openly hostile report to russia also encourages a partnership with turkey against russia, even as turkey pursues an ambiguous policy towards terrorist organisations such as the islamic state group, as well as submission to the americans through nato. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to raise awareness in the european union of the importance of the black sea, at a time when we are revising both our defence and security strategies. the deployments and aggressive modernisation of the russian fleet are a security challenge that cannot be ignored or left solely in the hands of nato.
in writing. the eurocrats are clearly obsessed with russia, blaming it for all the ills by repeating the most grotesque lies. what a dangerous irresponsibility! so where will such bellicose rhetoric lead us, which implies total submission to nato?
in writing. ‒ the report on the strategic and military position in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea is yet another example of what could probably be described as russophobia by many european officials. the proliferation of resolutions to this effect in the european parliament is becoming ridiculous. let us remember for the umpteenth time that russia is neither an adversary nor an enemy of the european nations. each state is of course free to decide for itself what foreign policy it wishes to pursue, but i would like my country, france, to maintain normal and non-bellicose relations with russia. for these reasons, i cannot approve this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the strategic and military position in the black sea basin following the allegedly illegal annexation of crimea by russia. like the report on relations between the union and russia, this text echoes the old refrain of anti-russian policy. not only is he contributing to the escalation of tensions, but he is also disrespecting the citizens of crimea who have expressed their will to join russia by voting. we are all aware of the bias of this report, which is aimed solely at aligning itself with washington's policy and breaking up the continental bloc.
in writing. ‒ the main purpose of this report is to express concern about the strategic changes in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea. the report draws particular attention to the fact that by occupying the entire peninsula, russia has established a powerful rear base towards the west, the balkans and the south, where it has stationed a permanent naval force. the report also stresses that the european union should strengthen its own resilience and mobilize in the face of the challenges posed by the use of information as a weapon and the security of information. given the concern over the multiple indications of violations of the minsk agreement by russia and the separatists, it is necessary for the european commission to review the european security strategy and, in the context of the review of the european neighbourhood policy, to strengthen cooperation under the csdp with the black sea littoral partner states. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament strongly condemns russia's illegal annexation of crimea and sevastopol under international law. clearly, economic and financial sanctions alone, while useful, are not enough to resolve conflicts. that is why we must rethink our overall strategy for common security and defence. the conflict in eastern ukraine can only be resolved if europe speaks with one voice and today more firmly assumes the need for its common security and defence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the strategic and military position in the black sea basin following the allegedly illegal annexation of crimea by russia. like the report on relations between the union and russia, this text echoes the old refrain of anti-russian policy. not only is he contributing to the escalation of tensions, but he is also disrespecting the citizens of crimea who have expressed their will to join russia by voting. the union should stop trying to impose its will beyond its own borders. we are all aware of the bias of this report, which is aimed solely at aligning itself with washington's policy and breaking up the continental bloc.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is mainly directed against russia and aims to support the security of european states exclusively on the basis of nato options.
in writing. ‒ ioan mircea pascu's report on the military-strategic situation in the black sea basin following russia's allegedly illegal annexation of crimea joins a consistent logic of the european union of stigmatization and interference with russia. the challenge to the crimean self-determination referendum, held on 16 march 2014, reflects the self-proclaimed elites of the european union's perennial contempt for direct democracy and referendum. the conclusions reached on safety in the black sea basin are also worrying. behind moral pretexts, such as the defence of human rights, which the european union is able to turn a blind eye to when it comes to safeguarding its interests and those of the united states, there is a very clearly threatening attitude. for these reasons, the patriotic members will oppose the validation of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on the strategic and military position in the black sea basin. this text does not take into account the history of the region and the reality of the balance of power. the referendum by which the population of crimea returned to the russian fold was first of all the consequence of the coup d'état in kiev. secondly, it is the will of the people that justifies this link, even though it is obvious that there is no doubt about russia's strategy of access to the 'warm seas'. i want europe to re-establish a peaceful relationship with russia, dictated by our respective interests, rather than obeying the strategic agenda of the united states.
in writing. i abstained on the report by my colleague ioan mircea pascu on the strategic and military position in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea. the annexation of crimea is indeed reprehensible, but the report calls for the needless remilitarisation of the black sea and for nato to actively support the defence policies of the countries in the region. the report therefore encourages an increase in tensions between the russian federation and the european union which is undesirable if a peaceful settlement is to be sought.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the military-strategic situation in the black sea basin. while condemning the illegal annexation of crimea is of course still relevant, an overly aggressive attitude towards russia is also not the solution. the conflict must be avoided and a way of cooperation must be sought to ensure the security of the region and the civilian population in a lasting way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr mircea pascu on the strategic and military situation in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea. the report underlines the complexity of the strategic and military situation in the black sea, while recalling that the eu's sanctions against russia must continue to be linked to the implementation of the minsk agreements. in view of the strategic reality in the black sea region, where russia has been engaged for several months in a long-term process of militarisation, this european parliament report also reaffirms the need for the european union and its member states to manage the situation responsibly.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which purports to assess the situation in crimea. it should be recalled that this allegedly illegal annexation is in fact the result of a popular decision in crimea that democratically expressed itself in favour of joining russia. this text combines threats against russia (more sanctions), a subjugation to nato (which alone can protect us from the big bad russia), and even officially suggests that the union become an arms dealer feeding kiev (as if this were not already the case ...). the conclusion of this report, as always, is that russia wants to start a new cold war and that only a strengthening of the common security and defence policy - and therefore more europe - can save us from it. we object to this one-sided presentation of the situation.
in writing. ‒ this report is pushing the commission and the council to adopt new sanctions against russia and even to consider arms deliveries to ukraine! it called on the member states to increase their defence budgets and to be ready to 'mobilize european naval and air forces in the black sea'. he called for better 'coordination with nato, in particular the black sea states and the us' which have already sent paratroopers to ukraine. the common security policy, but also the neighbourhood policy, the energy strategy: everything is good to participate in a policy of going to war against moscow. this is not a 'courageous and effective attitude' but a bidding war in the escalation of tensions that this parliament is launching here. i vote against these remarks which are increasingly taking the form of a declaration of war.
in writing. - this report is so caricatured it seems exaggerated. a more moderate approach would have been desirable. russia is allegedly responsible for "the annexation of crimea" but also for "the escalation of military violence in crimea". taking as its source the report of nato, which aims to fight russia. the european union, true to itself, denies democracy and the right of peoples to self-determination. it refuses to recognise the referendum of 16 march 2014. in addition, this russophobic report calls for a partnership with turkey against russia and for submission to the americans through nato. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. this report on the 'strategic and military position in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea' echoes the previous report on russia. in a highly anti-russian move, which blames russia for all the ills, he calls russia's annexation of crimea "illegal annexation", but blames russia for the "escalation of military violence in crimea", while the only source of this report is nato, an organization totally subordinated to american interests and whose only reason for existence is to hit russia in accordance with brzezinski's precepts. of course, he refuses to recognize the referendum of march 16, 2014, although confirmed by recent polls conducted by independent institutes. the european union thus confirms that it has little appreciation for democracy and even less for the un charter proclaiming the right of peoples to self-determination. the report also calls for a strategic partnership with turkey (a country with which the union has no objections) to counter russia and thus to comply with the wishes of the us and nato. i voted against this bill.‬
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the strategic and military position in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea. the text welcomes in particular france's decision to 'reconsider the delivery of the mistral-class amphibious assault ships to russia (...) with a view to terminating this contract unequivocally and definitively'. i am opposed to the decision of françois hollande, which discredits our trade agreement. i would remind you that the breach of contract will cost french taxpayers more than €1 billion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the strategic and military position in the black sea basin following the annexation of crimea by russia. there are many reasons to doubt russia's willingness to respect the minsk agreements. the european parliament expressed its concern and condemned the human rights violations committed by russia. the european union should strengthen its resilience, security and defence capability and develop its energy independence. however, i voted against the paragraphs calling for nato to actively support the defence policies of the countries of the region. the strategic orientations and political choices of nato are not within the competence of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report and the state of affairs it sets out. i'm a little wary of appeals to nato.
in writing. ‒ the report on the strategic and military position in the black sea basin following russia's illegal annexation of crimea is yet another example of what could probably be described as russophobia among many european officials. the proliferation of resolutions to this effect in the european parliament is becoming ridiculous. let us remember once again that russia is not an adversary, let alone an enemy, of the european nations. each state is of course free to decide for itself what foreign policy it wishes to pursue, but i would like my country, france, to maintain normal and non-bellicose relations with russia. for these reasons, i cannot approve this report.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because i am convinced that the annexation of crimea has indeed changed the strategic situation in the black sea region. this opened up new possibilities for russia to promote, for example, quasi-security in transnistria. i am convinced that the european states must respond to this new situation, particularly through nato. the increased threat to the eu and nato countries bordering the black sea is evident in the current political situation in the region, and these partner countries deserve our support and the assurance that they will not be left alone in any problems.
in writing. ‒ following russia's illegal annexation of crimea, the geopolitical balance of the peripheral region, and in particular the black sea basin, is being called into question. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. i voted in favour of this text. i believe that it is crucial for the union and for geopolitical stability at the union's borders that a common strategy be drawn up between the union and its member states. the report aims to raise the union's awareness of the strategic importance of the black sea and to outline a possible convergence of european and national defence and security strategies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the military-strategic situation in the black sea basin following the annexation of crimea by russia. the annexation is not in accordance with international law and violates the un charter, the paris charter and the osce helsinki final act. ukraine is independent, sovereign and must enjoy its territorial integrity. clearly, the situation is not improving. many human rights violations have been committed in crimea since the occupation by russian forces. the crimean tatars are particularly victims of the regime because they supported the integrity of the ukrainian territory. we recall that the black sea is a priority area for the european union, particularly in terms of security and defence. cooperation between the member states and the black sea littoral states must continue in order to resolve long-standing conflicts which threaten the overall security of our continent.
in writing. - again, this is a war report against russia. the right wing in the house, stuck in a binary view of the conflict in ukraine, continues its relentless attack on russia. the report therefore not only proposes tougher sanctions against russia, but also recommends that arms deliveries to ukraine be 'considered'. more implausibly, the report calls on moldova and georgia to "consider intensifying their cooperation, including on the military front", all under the auspices of nato and the us, which are expressly named and presented as saviors. we must stop this anti-russian, anti-communist and warmongering propaganda. yes, russia is objectionable on some issues and we do not idealize it, but it is a major strategic partner on the international stage and our interest lies in cooperation. it is a europe of peace, capable of helping to resolve the conflicts we need, not a europe that adds fuel to the fire and thinks it is back to the days of the cold war. let us also keep an eye on the reality of what is happening in ukraine.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the recent revelations of corruption within fifa is generally positive. it recalls certain principles, such as the fact that countries applying to host an international competition must respect fundamental rights. the unacceptable and inhumane working conditions of foreign workers in qatar are denounced. corruption, which is a hindrance to development and reduces trust between the various partners, must be combated and i welcome the fact that the union is taking the problem into consideration. i am in favour of organisational reform, but i am glad that the resolution is not too intrusive on this point. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - there are advantages to federalism. our 28 european judges have been quite incapable of challenging the fifa's deeds in the world of football. the swiss have also abandoned their banking secrecy policy under pressure from the us authorities, who have so far been cowardly to the european side.
in writing. so qatar is not just subsidizing some of the islamists who are rampaging in syria and iraq?
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the latest revelations of corruption within fifa strongly condemns corruption in sport and calls for clear and transparent reform of fifa. the text is not too intrusive, although it does mention points on intolerance and the fight against discrimination. for years, there have been many suspicions about the motives that led fifa to award qatar the 2022 world cup. the decision came as a surprise to the gazan emirate, which has no sporting tradition. it is also morally intolerable to have endorsed this attribution since we are endorsing the actions of the qatari dictatorship: financing of terrorism, no rights for women, persecution of homosexuals, ignoble working conditions for nepalese and indian workers who die in large numbers on construction sites, etc. this country dares to infiltrate the affairs of other countries by investing massively in strategic companies or neighbourhoods, but above all by prosecuting those who dare to attack it, including parliamentarians. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ football is a sport that unites and creates social cohesion. the institutions that govern it must be ethically sound. the recent scandals involving many of the top-level fifa officials are discrediting the entire football world, which is unacceptable. in this resolution we call for more transparency in the global governance of football. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is urgent to tackle the problems of corruption in international sport. the scandals currently affecting fifa show the need for a reassessment of the organisation and the choices made by the highest bodies in international competition. thus, one can question the factors that prevailed in the choice of qatar as the host of the 2022 world cup despite proven facts of torture, human rights violations, and other multiple violations of international law and it is positive that this resolution calls for the countries that are candidates to host an international competition to have an obligation to respect human rights for all activities related to the relevant sporting event. it was obvious that, in the face of ongoing business scandals, the 2022 world cup could only be put back on the ballot and qatari leaders will have to explain their involvement in hidden funding affairs.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows the revelations of high-level corruption within the international football federation (fifa) and strongly condemns this situation within fifa and calls on sports organisations, member states and the european union to cooperate fully in all ongoing and future investigations into allegations of corruption. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to expose corruption within fifa.
in writing. ‒ the incredible gabble of fifa requires that we stop to its heavy problems that have political significance. this resolution on the recent revelations of corruption within fifa is generally good. the unacceptable and inhumane working conditions of migrant workers in qatar are vigorously denounced. the resolution, which calls for reform of the organization, is not too intrusive and, apart from a few words about intolerance and discrimination in the sports world, it is acceptable. corruption, which is a hindrance to development and reduces trust between the various partners, must be combated and i welcome the fact that the union is taking the problem into consideration. because the deplorable working conditions in qatar have been condemned, because the resolution is not too intrusive in the reform of the fifa organization, i decided to vote for this resolution.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution on corruption cases within fifa. while i strongly condemn the corruption cases that have been found in football and all the abuses that damage the image of sport in general, i regret the inappropriate tone and the fact that the resolution is scattered over some topics that have nothing to do with its purpose. while it is clear that fifa needs to renew its credibility by carrying out the urgently needed reforms and that diligent investigations are needed to clarify the conditions for awarding the world cups to qatar and russia, the gender mix in the resolution only served to blur the message, which is why i decided to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. - i voted yes. the text recalls that countries applying to host an international competition are obliged to respect a number of fundamental rights and that fifa is under the same obligation. a controversy has arisen in particular following accusations concerning the working conditions on qatari construction sites with the questioning of the respect of workers, especially immigrants (passport confiscated), with suspicion of forced labor. and some of them were killed on the job. the text therefore condemns all forms of corruption within fifa following the latest revelations and calls for reform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. although some amendments that we were keen on were not passed, the final result is acceptable: the resolution condemns corruption in sport as a whole, and within fifa in particular, and calls for reform of the organisation. we also appreciate that the final text clearly states that candidate organisations for international competition must respect fundamental rights for all activities related to the sporting event in question. we can only hope that this will be respected in the future.
in writing. - fifa is at the heart of a corruption scandal. fourteen people (including the vice-president) have been arrested and serious suspicions are being raised about how the 1998, 2010, 2018 or 2022 world cups were awarded. the resolution condemns corruption. it also calls for reform of fifa and for host countries to respect human rights and freedom of the press. i regret that the fate of the migrant workers employed in the construction of qatar's stadiums is not explicitly mentioned. i shall vote for this text, however.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the recent revelations of corruption within fifa is generally good. the principle of respect for fundamental rights is recalled, particularly when applying to organise an international competition. the inhumane working conditions of workers in qatar are denounced. corruption, which is a hindrance to development and reduces trust between the various partners, must be combated. this resolution is not too intrusive. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the report attempts to condemn the abuses of the football business, by bouncing back on the fifa bribery case. these institutionalized practices in an organization that cares less about sport than money should certainly be condemned and demanded to be reformed in depth. it is also worth noting the highlighting of forced labour on the construction sites of the 2022 world cup in qatar, regularly denounced by ngos, without any diplomatic initiative being taken to stop this scandal. the report must therefore be supported.
in writing. the european parliament deplores the recent allegations of corruption within fifa, calls for zero tolerance against corruption in football and for reform of the fifa organisation, and welcomes the resignation of sepp blatter. ‬ however, this resignation will not be enough. it is therefore proposed to cancel the award of the 2018 and 2022 world cups if the alleged corruption is proven to be true. the organisation of the 2022 world cup in qatar is a particular problem. for years, there have been serious doubts about the conditions for awarding the competition to this emirate with no sporting tradition. apart from that, it is particularly shocking that such a major competition has been attributed to a dictatorial country with morally reprehensible practices, such as the persecution of homosexuals, condemned to prison or flogging, the death of thousands of nepalese and indian workers on construction sites, the almost absence of rights for women, or the financing of jihadist terrorism. in addition, the country dares to use intimidation tactics by prosecuting anyone who wants to break the omertà, including parliamentarians. i reject this submission to this wahhabi dictatorship and have therefore decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the recent cases of corruption within fifa. the resolution follows the arrest of 14 fifa officials at the request of the us judiciary. it calls on all sport governing bodies to promote good governance practices and increase transparency in order to reduce the risk of becoming victims of corruption. it also calls for better gender balance in the appointment of members to the boards and executive committees of all organisations. it recalls that sport, including football, is not a prerogative reserved for men.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution following the revelations of corruption at the highest level of the international football federation (fifa). in response to the arrest of several fifa officials and the opening of a judicial inquiry into the awarding of the 2018 fifa world cup, parliament strongly condemned corruption within fifa. the resolution calls on sports institutions, member states and the european union to cooperate fully in all investigations into allegations of corruption. the european parliament, in this text, emphasises the need to take measures to promote ethics and prevent corruption in sport.
in writing. ‒ a resignation at the fifa summit will not be enough. it is a system of widespread corruption that is being exposed, something that lovers of sport and the common good cannot tolerate. for years, there have been serious suspicions about the motives that led fifa to award the world cup to qatar, a gazan emirate with no sporting tradition. i ask that everything be put back on track for 2022 and that the world cup be awarded to another country. it is unworthy to condone the practices of the islamic dictatorship in qatar: financing terrorism, no rights for women, persecution of homosexuals condemned to prison and flogging, death of thousands of nepalese and indian workers on construction sites, etc. this tyranny seeks to intimidate our democracies by prosecuting those who criticize, today parliamentarians, tomorrow journalists and human rights activists! she attacks when she can't corrupt. the proposed text takes account of these criticisms, but does not go as far as would be desirable. nevertheless, it is a first step in reassessing our relationship with this liberty-killing theocracy. that is why i am voting for it.
in writing. ‒ the current affair in the world football federation fifa unfortunately bears the symptoms of the disease of corruption in some international organisations. i therefore welcome the resignation of fifa president blatter, although such a step should have been taken long ago, when the first doubts about the integrity of the fifa management's decision-making appeared. i am glad that the european football federations, including the czech one, did not support blatter's latest moves and that although they were defeated, they emerged from the situation as moral winners. i therefore believe that the future leadership of fifa will clear world football of corruption allegations and will also make better and more transparent decisions about the venues of world football tournaments. i consider the resolution to be balanced and therefore i support it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which strongly condemns the corruption revealed within fifa. we ask, if the investigation warrants it, that the officials involved in this case be excluded and that decisions related to corrupt or criminal activities within fifa be reviewed. we welcome the resignation of joseph blatter as fifa president. fifa must immediately and openly elect an interim president who will have to carry out structural reforms towards greater transparency, accountability and democracy. strict ethical standards and a code of conduct must be adopted, all monitored by an independent oversight body. the time for change has come. finally, it is essential that all the parties concerned learn to react and cooperate with each other in order to combat corruption effectively within fifa and any other national football association in the european union.
on behalf of the enf group. mr. president, you were looking for me in the front row, i assume? but democracy has a hard time moving forward in this parliament, we knew that. so it has already fallen a few steps, it has five steps left, but i have no doubt that this parliament, which is so committed to democracy and to respect for all the groups, will find a solution and put an end to what appears to everyone to be a terrifying discrimination. so, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations which the european union is currently conducting with greece are fierce. brussels is not letting up and is trying to force the greeks to continue with the hyper-austerity that is destroying their country. the reduction of pensions and the minimum wage and the increase of vat have already destroyed the greek economy and make no sense, even from a financial point of view. yet you ask the greeks to go back for a spin on this deadly scenario. everyone knows that greece, with a debt of 180% of its gdp, cannot pay its creditors, but you are asking the greek people to continue to bear the burden of an absolutely unsustainable public debt. you are thus slaves to debt against this people, the same debt slavery that was abolished by solon in 500 bc. let me say that this is a very good regression. if tsipras refuses your uncompromising terms, the greek state will default on its public debt on june 30th. as a result, the fragile greek banks will go bankrupt. we all know that the text voted in 2014 by this parliament, which we have dubbed "the wall": the single resolution mechanism, should then apply. then you will send every greek saver into that wall. have you told the people of europe that this text requires the seizure of all their deposits and bank savings accounts above 100,000 euros, if their failing banks are to be recapitalized? - you didn't? you've been careful to keep this from your constituents? did you say that article 6 of this text allows the european commission to lower the threshold for the spoliation of savings from 100 000 euros to what, 20 000, 10 000, 5 000 or zero euros? i will read article 6 again to refresh your memory, the amount referred to - eur 100 000 - is subject to periodic review, taking account in particular of developments in the banking sector and the economic and monetary situation in the union. that review shall not take place before 3 july 2020. whoa! unless unforeseen circumstances require it to be done at a later date. this is not only a tyrannical rule, it is also the most stupid. when the citizens of european countries understand your maneuvers, depositors' trust in their banking system will be destroyed, which will accelerate bank runs in crisis situations. but you have no choice but to try to save the euro once again, even if it means confiscating your citizens' bank deposits. so you shamefully voted for this bill and then hid from all the savers that you could rob them of their savings if their bank failed. it is time to get rid of the golden calf of the euro and to put an end to this folly, it is time to return to democracy and to give each people its own national currency!
in writing. the negotiations between the european union and greece will be the focus of this next council. the hyper-austerity imposed by brussels has finally brought the greek people to their knees. pension cuts, record unemployment, public debt exploding to 180% of gdp, greece is now at the throat and the greek economy is totally asphyxiated. to avoid the bankruptcy of greek banks, brussels plans to trigger a mechanism to take advantage of the savings of the greeks. the ceiling of eur 100 000 could even be revised downwards (article 6 - mru). to save the euro, the eurobats are definitely ready to do anything, including confiscating private bank deposits. there is an urgent need to return to democracy, to the sovereignty of nations and peoples.
in writing. the european strategy on immigration is certainly not ambitious, but it is a first step in the right direction. in order to achieve a lasting solution, this question can no longer be dealt with under the principle of subsidiarity. it must be a european policy in its own right. all member states must abandon the logic of each for itself and finally agree to put into practice the calls for solidarity and responsibility, first and foremost on the proposals for the relocation and resettlement of 60 000 migrants. solidarity applies not only to each other but also and above all to those thousands of people who need protection or who are seeking a better life. responsibility is applied through a realistic and positive approach to immigration, which does not mean systematically turning migrants away from european territory. realistically, we must take action to establish legal channels of immigration for migrants and asylum seekers alike. in the face of the frivolity of some states and those who wish to raise barriers at their borders, let us say loud and clear that immigration is not a problem. this is a reality that requires ambitious, humane and open solutions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, what a sad waste. once again, europe is not going to be there. once again, europe will be unable to send a strong signal to its citizens and to the rest of the world. once again, europe will demonstrate the inability of its leaders - and i regret it - to imagine the 21st century and to respond to the new challenges it presents us with in terms of production, consumption, mobility, energy and resources. like all environmentalists, of course, i am in favour of an investment plan, but a real one, which would really help to revive europe, give hope to young people, give them work, respond to the question of unemployment and tackle the environmental and social challenges that are arising. unfortunately, the juncker plan is not an investment plan; it's a communication plan. i am very much afraid that its announced failure will only create more backwardness and despair in europe, and that in the end, far more than the eurosceptics, we will all be the gravediggers of the europe we defend.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the great cohesion in parliament between the various rapporteurs, which has made it possible to defend our positions, to underline the personal involvement of mrs georgieva and mr katainen, who have long participated in our sleepless nights, and to welcome the very pugnacious position of our rapporteur on the budget, my friend josé manuel fernandes, who has made it possible to improve the proposals, in the face of an intransigent council which has decided to sacrifice the programmes devoted to growth and employment, rather than to use those margins which the member states undoubtedly hope to make better use of. i welcome the adoption of this much-needed investment support mechanism for europe. the projects supported, and this is what i would like to stress, must have a real additionality, that is to say, a high risk profile and support where the market does not support. these projects must be consistent with the union's policy objectives, particularly in the areas of transport, energy, telecommunications and research. the economic situation in the community is not such as to dissuade our governments from making progress towards structural reforms.
mr president, the european fund for strategic investments seems to be the last resort in an impossible recovery. the juncker plan is making a lot of noise for nothing in reality. the report again deplores the dramatic fall in private investment, which is the result of the disastrous austerity policies demanded by brussels. in the face of this, the commission, with much communication, is showing us 315 billion euros of investment created from a guarantee of only 21 billion. this deliberately overestimated leverage effect will suffer the same fate as the pact for growth and jobs, which is supposed to bring in €60 billion of additional investment, but in fact amounts to €20 billion. the counterparts demanded are always the same, the smoking structural reforms which are no longer even appreciated by the imf economists, who recently admitted that they do not bring any additional growth. in reality, this plan will accelerate territorial disparities by selecting only the most profitable projects, to the obvious benefit of a few large cities and agglomerations. finally, and this is the most scandalous, it will strengthen the bottom line, the privatization of infrastructure through partnerships more... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i am glad that we have been able to do so much in such a short time. the efsi is a new financial instrument available to private investors, but in order for them to take up and commit to it, two obstacles and two risks must be removed. the fragmentation of the internal market is the first obstacle: investors in the economic field are demanding uniformity and stability of the rules, that is to say the urgency of speeding up the removal of the barriers which still encumber the european market. the second obstacle is monetary: the lasting settlement of the greek crisis and the installation of a credible government in the euro zone must put an end to the questions and doubts about the euro. finally, while it is true that the efsi is a guarantee given to investors in return for a risk not borne by the markets, i would like to warn against two risks linked to its implementation. the first risk is that we will not be able to provide the partnership that smes expect, in contradiction with the requirement of additionality introduced in our regulation, and the second risk is that we will open the way to a deconsolidation of public investment expenditure and the associated debts.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to join in the congratulations to the negotiators, particularly my colleagues in parliament, who have sometimes fought against the council's rigidity and, more surprisingly, against a certain hostility, at the outset, from the commission. this investment fund, we dreamed it, we made it and we will vote it! i hope that everyone recognizes today the added value of the progress achieved by parliament, for example on the budget. although research and transport infrastructure budgets have recovered 1 billion of the 6 billion initially cut, the choice to provision the fund for these programmes still weakens them. a higher use of margins would have been less counterproductive and this debate confirms once again the handicap of an undersized european budget. i would also like to stress the importance of the clarifications we have made to ensure that there is real additionality: investing where neither the eib nor the structural funds can do it, investing in projects that meet the requirements of energy transition and job creation, and i welcome the guidelines and scoreboard that will guide investment priorities. i would also like to emphasize the clarifications obtained on the cofinancing of member states and public investment banks in relation to the stability pact. these one-off measures may be excluded from the deficit calculation in order to loosen the grip of austerity. but what we are voting on today is only a step. we are not giving the eib or the commission a free hand. researchers, universities and regions can be sure that we will continue our efforts to safeguard the funding for horizon 2020 and the cef through all the levers, mrs georgieva, and even the margins, during the annual budgetary procedure. the reason why we socialists and democrats have put so much emphasis on the question of governance and democratic control is that we regard parliament as the watchdog over the use of the budget. we will defend investments that serve the goals of job creation and sustainable growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as in all of europe, the citizens of my constituency are waiting for economic recovery and are well aware that it requires a massive plan of public and private investment. the efsi will obviously be an asset to this recovery thanks to the guarantee it provides to project promoters. i would like to express my satisfaction with what parliament has done and with the draft regulation it has been able to draw up. i have emphasized two particular points: firstly, the involvement of the regional levels, which seems to me very important, because the regions are called upon to carry projects and to support them financially, particularly in the most fragile areas; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i regret, however, that the council has not agreed to provide the guarantee funding and i will be extremely vigilant on the budgetary question, particularly on the esf and horizon 2020.
mr president, madam vice-president, mr vice-president, adopting this strategic investment fund means first of all rebuilding confidence and proving its effectiveness. we have already won the race against time, because five months have passed since the juncker proposal, and we have already met a great challenge. to prove effectiveness means that when we vote for investment support, we must immediately draw the cash to make it useful. the challenge we have to face with this investment fund is above all the creation of jobs. and behind the european social fund, we can see clearly that it is strategic investment that can be a creator of wealth, a creator of research and innovation, a source of mobilization of public and private funds, so that full employment is our main objective and restores the confidence of our citizens. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, of course you are asking the age of the captain, i can't help it! what i want to do with this plan is to restore public confidence, because strategic investment necessarily restores and creates jobs, and behind these jobs are young people entering the labour market, unemployed people returning to the labour market and, of course, working lives being extended. so there is no room here in this house for doubt: yes, strategic investment is essential!
in writing. president juncker announced last december that a european fund would be set up by the summer to boost investment on our continent. the project, which is an essential element of european economic policy alongside budgetary consolidation and structural reforms, was designed to support the development of smes, create jobs and finance growth projects in the fields of agri-food, transport, digital, energy, research and innovation. the meeting with the opinion was taken. today i am pleased that the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed on this european fund for strategic investments which will eventually mobilise eur 315 billion over three years towards the real economy. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament, on behalf of the project promoters in our territories, has been able to impose a reduction of one billion in the planned contributions from the horizon 2020 programmes and the connecting europe facility to the fund. in order to achieve the desired results, it is now necessary to set up this fund as soon as possible.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, we have known for a long time that economic and monetary union is incomplete. in this parliament - in the previous parliament - we took a stand on the report by our former colleague mrs thyssen. i welcome this report and hope that it will continue to inspire the work of the commission and the council. but unfortunately, since then, this emergency has not yet happened and when we look at the level of unemployment, the low inflation, the too low growth in the european union, not to mention greece, we realise that there is an urgent need to look again at this question of economic and monetary union. on the eve of a european council meeting to consider the report of the five presidents, to which our president has made a contribution which i welcome, we as the european parliament must have the courage to take a stand on issues which divide us. if this urgent issue is dragging on so long, it is because it is a divisive issue. i would like to say that the balance we have found on this report shows that there is a possible way forward, that there are advances that are possible, with or without revision of the treaties. and we're demonstrating that we can move the lines. we also affirm that the first step taken by the european commission with the communication on flexibility is a useful step which must be stabilized. it allows us to reaffirm that the issue of investment in the european union, beyond the efsi, is an issue that must be dealt with continuously and kept in the crosshairs. we cannot be satisfied with an efsi and consider it to be a one-off measure. the question of investment must become a key indicator to ensure that we are conducting the right economic policy at the level of each of the member states and at the aggregate level. we say that structural reform is a demanding reform, which must be evaluated over time in terms of results, not only in terms of labour costs but also by integrating social, environmental and economic criteria. we also say that the troika system cannot be repeated, that we must go further, and that is perhaps the most important message of this report. the european semester must enable us to conduct better economic policies for the whole of the european union. and where it is necessary to do so, courage will be required, because it will undoubtedly be necessary to correct the rules to make them simpler and more comprehensive and to improve economic governance. the emphasis should also be placed on the question of convergence, much more than the report by the five presidents does, let us admit that. i am deeply convinced that convergence cannot wait too long, as we know that our economic and monetary union suffers from our differences. macroeconomic imbalances between member states and also within certain member states should be considered. this is a point that needs to be emphasized. we will need to have an approach that goes beyond the rules to have an economic policy, to be able to assess the situation and the prospect of the euro area and to articulate economic policies according to this diagnosis. we also say in this report that the debt rule needs to be examined more closely, because it is clearly not in line with the reality of european economies. and then, beyond that, in a revision of the treaties which will have to be anticipated, because i am convinced, and i will end here, mr president, that when it comes to economic and monetary union, we will have to show the same political will that we were able to mobilise to complete banking union. it seems to me that the president is withdrawing the floor.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to address you today on this very topical issue. i would like to start by congratulating you on tabling this draft report. let me briefly recall where we have come from. the commission published its communication on the six- and two-pack review last year as a basis for debate. with this report you have responded to our invitation to the debate, for which i thank you, in particular as the report is the outcome of thorough and long discussions in this house. it proves that the issues at stake are important and of concern to all of us. for this reason, i am particularly glad to know that our views largely converge. we all share the common objective of an efficient and effective economic governance framework. the reform introduced by the six- and two-pack legislation has gone a long way towards this goal. the reform has strengthened the governance framework and has made it deeper, broader and more effective. here i can assure you that the commission is resolved to follow both the letter and the spirit of the six- and two-pack reform in its entirety. it is not without challenges, however. while the governance framework is no smarter, it is also more complex, which creates challenges for transparency and ownership, which in turn affects the enforcement and implementation of reforms. this commission has taken measures to improve the transparency and effectiveness of the framework. this concerns, in particular, the streamlining of the european semester and clarification of the flexibility in the stability and growth pact. we all view the european semester as an important vehicle to coordinate economic policies and deliver reforms, and we all agree that national ownership built on wide consultation of national stakeholders and supported by democratic oversight is key for implementation of reforms. for this reason, the new european semester places so much focus on prioritising consultations and debates. discussions in the european parliament, in particular in the context of the economic dialogue, are important elements in guaranteeing the transparency and legitimacy of the european semester. in the same spirit of transparency and clarity, the commission presented its communication on flexibility in the stability and growth pact (sgp), and i am glad that you recognised our efforts. we are going to have a debate on sgp later today, so, for the sake of brevity, let me only emphasise that the flexibility communication was an important step towards better aligning fiscal and economic surveillance, towards creating stronger incentives for reforms and towards ensuring consistency between edp recommendations and the csrs. the flexibility communication was one of the components of the economic policy strategy this commission presented in the annual growth survey (ags). with their strengthened governance framework with the commission’s ags priorities, we are on the right path to overcome the legacy of the crisis. however, our ambition must go further. in particular, the euro area needs a framework which is resilient and robust to any future crises, so that any doubts about the stability of the euro area are removed. i can see there is full agreement on this point among us. tomorrow, eu leaders, including the president of the european parliament, will discuss the next steps towards better economic governance in the euro area, based on the five presidents’ report. the report you are adopting today will be a valuable contribution to further improvements in the governance framework. the commission is fully committed to take forward the initiative to strengthen emu, and we hope we can count on your support.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i propose three lines of action to deepen european economic governance. first of all, we must ensure that the country-specific recommendations are better applied, and i would call on the member states to take responsibility for this. this also requires greater involvement of national parliaments, the social partners and european citizens. finally, there is a need to increase the visibility of the social situation in the member states. the return to growth, and especially to employment, will only come with genuine labour market reforms, at least in a number of member states. the return to growth will also be achieved by a lighter taxation of the labour market. finally, i think we need a more favourable environment. (the president cut the speaker off)
the committee on constitutional affairs has appointed a rapporteur for its opinion. mr president, we are coming to the end of a long process in which we in the committee on constitutional affairs have tried to look a little further into the future and to make proposals that are a little more innovative. i am deeply sorry that a number of the elements which were adopted in the committee on constitutional affairs and for which there was a gentleman's agreement between the afco committee and the econ committee have not been taken up in this report. i am thinking in particular of how we are making sure that the rules are better observed. one of the institutions which played an extremely important role in the consolidation of the european community at that time and of the european union afterwards is the court of justice. it has just given a very important decision on unwto and we thought it would be interesting to consider, in the remote hypothesis of a change in the treaty, the possibility of increasing the role of the court, which is naturally the body which is supposed to ensure that the rules are respected. this provision has not been repealed. i think that, given the current lack of confidence in the legal and political governance of the euro area, this is extremely regrettable. that is why our group has very deep doubts about this report.
mr president, this report is a compromise. a compromise always causes discontent, and this text is no exception. however, it must be remembered that at the end of a long negotiation which was quite difficult and painful, we managed to maintain a number of principles which seem particularly important to our group, the epp. firstly, the six pack and the two pack must not be revised and we are not reopening the debate on the stability and growth pact, which was essential for us. secondly, we remind you that the rules in force must be respected. in reality, the malfunctions that many of our colleagues in the member states are talking about are malfunctions that are simply due to non-compliance and non-application of the rules. the report by the five presidents does mention that we must strengthen our system of economic governance and that this requires the application of the existing rules. i urge the european commission to be firm on this point in order to maintain and strengthen our internal market and strengthen our environmental and industrial policy. finally, it must be acknowledged that some member states, more than others, need to make structural reforms to adapt their economies to the changing world, and i recognize that this is a step forward which has been made by the rapporteur mrs berès and i very much hope that commissioner moscovici will be able to convey the right messages to paris. the maintenance of the existing rules, strict application of the latter, structural reforms - these are the reasons why we shall vote in favour of this report.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr. weizsäcker, who is the wolf?
i'm the reporter. mr president, if there was a need to demonstrate the difficulty and tensions surrounding this issue, i believe that this debate has illustrated it well. but i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to what we have been able to say in this report, because in some of the speeches i have not read the same thing. it is not true that this report does not concern itself with the social dimension of economic and monetary union. it is not true that this report is not concerned with the situation of the unemployed and those who are not employed in europe today. it is not true that the report says nothing about urgency, in terms of smarter investment and structural reforms. it is not true that the report says nothing about reforming the rules of economic governance. this report explicitly states that the rules of economic governance will have to be supplemented, amended and corrected. it is now up to us to convince the council and the commission to act. of course, there will be further debate, but there will also be action, and in this path towards reform of economic and monetary governance, it seems to me that this european parliament can today give a signal: there is a possible majority between the right and the left to move forward on the basis of the proposals which i hope will be supported by this house in a moment. finally, as everyone knows, these negotiations have been very difficult, but i would like to thank, with all due respect and courtesy, the contributions of each of the fictitious rapporteurs and the negotiating team, even if i realise that at the end of this long joint history we do not share the same assessment of the work as a whole.
in writing. compliance with economic governance rules is a duty for euro area member states. let's stop asking whether we need more or less flexibility. the rules of the stability and growth pact provide for flexibility. it also leaves a considerable margin for investment. the call for more flexibility is to give false hope to european citizens. let us not hide behind this false debate on flexibility and address the real issue: the urgent need to bring our fiscal and social policies closer together. we have created a single market without frontiers in which people, goods and capital move freely. we have also created a single currency which has put an end to monetary competition. these are not viable without harmonization of national social and fiscal policies. on the one hand we want fair tax competition and on the other we do not want to converge national tax policies. we want to put an end to social dumping, but we refuse social coordination. it's economic and political nonsense. the member states must understand that their interest is not in ever more competition between them, but in more cohesion.
author. madam president, commissioner, thank you for being here to discuss this delicate issue of the interpretation of the stability and growth pact. these are complex texts. one of the reasons we asked this question is that during the previous commission we fought with commissioner olli rehn to ensure that there would be a fair application of the stability pact and that the rules would be the same for everyone. do you not think that when the commission accepts that reforms are announced and not implemented, we are engaging in a field where it is not at all certain that fairness between member states will be respected?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the stability and growth pact is a real failure and should be renamed the pact for instability and decline. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the recommendations on transparency in the application of the stability pact will therefore not change this. the example of greece has shown us this. the principle of the pact is flawed, because it is based on two erroneous assumptions. first, the idea that economic recovery would depend exclusively on austerity policies. secondly, the belief that these policies could be applied in an undifferentiated way to the 28 member states. instead of locking our nations up in inadequate budgetary, monetary and accounting rules, the 28 member states should be given a breath of fresh air and sovereignty to foresee a credible scenario for overcoming the crisis. the return to growth in europe will depend mainly on a radical change in economic and fiscal policies based on the... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, on behalf of the alde group, i would like to request that the report of mrs berès be referred back to the committee, according to rule 188 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the debate today and the release of the five presidents’ report on monday have clearly shown that the report is already outdated with regard to events going on outside this house.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a big thank you to the informers and the journalists. thanks to them, all european citizens have learned that at the very moment when taxation is becoming more and more burdensome for many of them, some of the largest companies are managing to avoid paying taxes on a large proportion of their profits. the problem is twofold and comes in two different forms. firstly, between us in the union, i would say that it is a question of family solidarity. you have said it very well, commissioner, in a unified economic area, 28 laws, all moral but different, end up in the highest degree of immorality. we must ban any system which allows some to steal the tax wealth of their neighbours. the solution is known. the laxity of the common definition of taxable profit, which you have mentioned and which you are well aware of, madam commissioner, since you were rapporteur in this parliament on the draft presented back in 2011, must be remedied. then there is the global level. the principles of transparency, fairness and equity must apply to tax competition as to all other types of competition. in this situation, we elected representatives have an obligation to deliver. parliament understood this when it set up the special committee on taxes. the european commission has understood this by presenting this first package of measures, which i welcome and which my group, madam president, will support. but it will depend on the political will of the governments. i am quite clear that taxation is too important a subject to be left to the finance ministers alone. left to themselves, they will accept everything and apply nothing. it is at the summit that we must act. the european council must address this before the end of the year. in a few months, the popular emotion created by the luxleaks case will have evaporated, and we'll be looking back 20 years.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is always suspect to see the arsonist at work. he may be in the best position to know how to put out the fire he started, but the question remains, does he really want to do it? the commission has presented its action plan to put the luxleaks scandal behind us. i would remind you that the president of the commission is jean-claude juncker, and he is the main architect of this practice of siphoning the tax revenue of his european partners to the benefit of luxembourg. this reminder alone should make us doubt the sincerity or the true intentions of this initiative. the aim of today's proposal is certainly laudable: to remove an incentive for aggressive tax optimisation, in line with the oecd's 15 proposals. states would retain control of rates and profits would remain localised in the country where the real economic activity is located. the question of location criteria remains, particularly for the digital economy. but the federalists could use today's consensus as an alibi to give a boost to fiscal union, which would go far beyond that. the axis project already plans to consolidate all profits and losses recorded throughout the european union. secondly, in the field of vat, brussels already imposes a framework on rates on the member states. france knows something about restaurants and books. what will be left of fiscal sovereignty in the long run? will this logic of integration in motion lead the union to lift its own tax? will there be a gradual transfer of national budgets to the union's budgets so that the final hurdle of unanimity is finally overcome? while the enf group can only approve of the fight against aggressive tax competition, we will remain very vigilant against processes and means which would undermine france's sovereignty.
madam president, mrs thyssen, mr moscovici and you are very lucky indeed. luxleaks gives you the opportunity to highlight the two major problems in the european union: tax dumping and tax opacity. so we have the diagnosis and now we have to try to solve the problems that arise. that has been said - and you yourself have said it - on the question of competition between states, we must of course move towards harmonization, or convergence, and try to have a consolidated european basis and a framework for rates. there is no difficulty in this area. on the question of opacity, which must be ended, it is a question of doing exactly as has been done for banks, as is done in other countries, abroad. we need clear country-by-country reports on turnover, taxes paid and the number of employees. unfortunately, if we know the answers, your second fiscal package - at least the one announced by mr moscovici on 17 june - does not yet meet those expectations. he is far from it! nothing on tax transparency, except for a request for public consultation, during which, of course, the big groups will explain to us how much we want to undermine their competitiveness. nothing about consolidating profits at european level, really, concretely, nothing about converging rates. i would like to say to you, madam commissioner, rely on this parliament! the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and it is to be seen as a step in the right direction. do it for the small and medium-sized enterprises, do it for the artisans, who cannot relocate their taxes! if you don't, who will?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what are the commission's real motives in this report? well, that's not news. i think the commission is basically taking over the oecd proposals. but one must read between the lines and one can decipher that, under the pretext of unifying corporate taxation in europe, the commission wants to create a european tax and legitimise its function as a supranational state. in short, we must always look for the end in view when we analyse the commission's proposals. once again, madam president, i think we should be sceptical of this proposal!
in writing. the commission has presented an action plan to reform corporate taxation in the eu in depth. the action plan sets out a series of initiatives to tackle tax evasion, ensure sustainable revenues and strengthen the single market for businesses. the guarantee of effective taxation, whereby companies should pay a fair share of tax in the country where they make their profits, is a good measure to combat tax evasion and dumping, but it will be necessary to be very vigilant about the way in which this measure is implemented so that the commission does not seek to increase its grip on states and encourage tax harmonisation. in addition, it is proposed to revive the idea of the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) with a view to having a single market for companies and a common tax system, thus overriding the sovereignty of states which will no longer be able to decide on their taxation, which is intolerable. finally, the desire to increase transparency is obviously in the right direction, but i hope that it will actually be achieved, since one can doubt the sincerity of the commission on this subject after the luxleaks case and the lack of a real decision by the commission following this scandal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. the report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, an unregistered member of the greek communist party. this report states that sotirios zarianopoulos is accused of having, by using physical violence, illegally broken into the premises of the greek public television station ert-3 on 4 march 2010 to interrupt the noon news and read a press release. i voted for this report and the waiver of immunity because i believe that the facts were before his election to the european parliament and that he is not the subject of political persecution.
in writing. ‒ a member of a greek trade union, sotirios zarianopoulos, is accused of breaking into a television set, of interrupting the news on television by using force in order to read a statement. firstly, the facts alleged against him have nothing to do with his activity as a member of parliament, since they predate his election as an mp. secondly, i reject the argument that the member is the victim of any persecution, since the proceedings were initiated before the beginning of his mandate as an mep. that's why i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr sotirios zarianopoulos. the facts alleged against him are not related to his activity as a member of parliament. mr zarianopoulos was not yet a member of parliament at the time of the events: his use of physical violence to attack the premises of the greek public television was in connection with his membership of the greek trade union pame. it can therefore be concluded that the proceedings against mr zarianopoulos were not initiated with the aim of undermining his mandate (fumus persecutionis).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the alleged facts predate the beginning of my mandate as an mep.
in writing. ‒ sotirios zarianopoulos is accused of having, by using physical violence, illegally broken into the premises of the greek public television station ert-3 on 4 march 2010 to interrupt the noon news and read a press release. i voted for the waiver of his immunity because this grievance predates his election to the european parliament and has nothing to do with his duties as an mep.
in writing. ‒ the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of parliament must remain the exception, and be limited to cases of prosecution for crimes or misdemeanours of a certain gravity, which cannot be likened to any form of pressure or censorship of a political nature. in the present case, the prosecution of mr zarianopoulos' action does not clearly exclude a form of politicisation of the prosecution, and it is therefore preferable to dismiss the application against him.
in writing. the immunity of the greek communist party mp sotirios zarianopoulos is requested following a break-in at the headquarters of the public television station ert, which resulted in physical violence, in order to interrupt the noon television news and read a statement. considering that the alleged facts took place in 2010, well before he took up his duties as a member of the european parliament, that they are also unrelated to his status as a member of the european parliament, and that the charges are not based on grounds which could prejudice the political activity of the member of the european parliament, i decided to vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. this report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of udo voigt, an unregistered member of the german npd. this report states that udo voigt is accused of a collective insult with incitement to racial hatred. his party published a calendar of world cup matches during the 2006 world cup, which included the inscription "weiß nicht nur eine trikotfarbe" ("white is not just a shirt colour") even though there was a black player in the team. i voted for this report and for the waiver of immunity because i believe that the facts were before his election to the european parliament and that he is not the subject of political persecution.
in writing. ‒ udo voigt is accused of collective insult and incitement to racial hatred. the facts alleged have nothing to do with his activity as a member of parliament since they predate his election as an mp. secondly, i reject the argument that the member is the victim of any persecution, since the proceedings were initiated before the beginning of his mandate as an mep. that's why i voted to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr udo voigt, who must be able to be tried by the courts of his country for an offence that has nothing to do with his activity as a member of the european parliament. mr voigt, who is being prosecuted for inciting racial hatred, has already been convicted by the court of first instance and the regional court, in particular for publishing a calendar during the 2006 world cup which stated "white, not just a colour of the shirt". since mr voigt has lodged an appeal, the german courts should be able to pursue their case in line with the constitutional court's case law on issues of freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the alleged facts predate the beginning of my mandate as an mep.
in writing. ‒ udo voigt, of the german ndp, is accused of collective insult with incitement to racial hatred. he published, during the 2006 fifa world cup, a calendar of the matches of the fifa world cup on which appeared the inscription weiß nicht nur eine trikotfarbe ( white not only a shirt color ) while there was a black player in this team. on 12 may 2014, the berlin regional court (landgericht) ruled against udo voigt, who had appealed. the appeal procedure has been pending before the court of appeal since 17 december 2014. i voted for the waiver of his immunity because this grievance predates his election to the european parliament and has nothing to do with his duties as an mep. marine le pen, to whom i personally explained this matter, called on the entire fn delegation to vote as i did.
in writing. ‒ the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of parliament must remain the exception, and be limited to cases of prosecution for crimes or misdemeanours of a certain gravity, which cannot be likened to any form of pressure or censorship of a political nature. in the present case, the prosecution of mr voigt's action does not clearly exclude a form of politicisation of the prosecution, and it is therefore preferable to dismiss the application against him.
in writing. the immunity of ugo voigt of the german npd is requested to be waived. he is accused of having collectively insulted the german football team during the 2006 world cup. his party had published a calendar with the inscription "white" and not just a shirt color. mr voigt was already convicted in the first instance on 12 may 2014, before he took office. however, he has appealed against this decision and therefore his immunity must be waived. considering that these facts predate his election to the european parliament, and that these proceedings do not manifest any political persecution, i decided to vote in favour of this waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of udo voigt. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ for the juncker plan to be a success and for investment to return to europe, it is crucial to both complete the single market, which is still too fragmented, to remove doubts about the future of greece and the euro area, to involve smes closely and to avoid the efsi opening the way to a deconsolidation of public spending. the european parliament will therefore have to remain vigilant. let us express our confidence and set an appointment with the member states for the revision of the multiannual financial framework, a good opportunity to re-establish payment appropriations for the horizon 2020 programmes and the cef.
in writing. the efsi should be part of an overall strategy to remove uncertainties that hold back public and private investment and reduce investment delays in the union in order to boost competitiveness. it also has to guarantee better access to finance for firms with up to 3 000 employees, giving priority to smes and small mid-caps. the total amount of this fund is to be eur 21 billion. i remain convinced that the impact on investment will remain limited, as the leverage effect is overestimated (x15!) and this can be seen in the growth and employment pact for 2012-2013. this plan will encourage the bargain effect for some companies that would have invested anyway and worse, it is worrying on several points since it encourages public-private partnerships, requires structural reforms (labour market, etc.) that are ineffective and will accentuate territorial disparities in favor of large urban areas and profitable projects to the detriment of our rural areas and medium-sized cities. smes are not likely to see the money coming from brussels, especially if the funding threshold goes up to 3 000 employees, whereas i proposed an amendment in committee to limit investment to companies with a maximum of 500 employees; an amendment obviously rejected. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), presented as the blueprint for the european growth spurt, confirms its smoke-filled nature. it is expected to create a leverage of 315 billion euros from a guarantee of 21 billion, but it still does not meet the expected audience. more worryingly, the member states called upon to pay into the juncker plan are promised that the amounts committed under the regulatory framework of the stability and growth pact will not be taken into account. this proposal risks draining the channels of public financing for the state/region plan contracts and the european structural funds (erdf + esf). the juncker plan will reduce the member states to a supporting force for the european union and force them to pursue the austerity policies demanded by the european commission. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments aims to boost investment to support growth and create new jobs. it will accompany the european union in its economic recovery. the european guarantee will enable investors to invest in projects of a riskier nature and longer term. it will also give particular encouragement to private initiatives. smes will be among the main beneficiaries of this project. today, the resources allocated to innovation and research are in sharp decline. this is a worrying situation which is damaging the competitiveness of european products and services on the world market. this fund will give a new impetus to research and innovation. it is essential that this be set up as soon as possible. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments. the fund, set up under the juncker plan, is intended to stimulate european investment, with an investment volume of €315 billion or 2.2% of the eu's gdp. while i am of course in favour of encouraging and facilitating investment for european companies, the fund, as designed, does not seem to promise any concrete effectiveness, particularly for smes. priority is given to projects with high economic returns. i am also sceptical about the real impact of such a fund on investment: we remember that the 2012 "growth and jobs pact" promised to create 60 billion euros and ended up at 20 billion. the promise of investment aid is also accompanied by interference in national public policies, with counter-measures demanded in the form of structural reforms, for example in the labour market: a step up from the states, which the imf's research service has already judged to be ineffective in terms of growth.
in writing. with this vote, we have reached an important milestone in the juncker plan to boost investment: the creation of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the eu's guarantee funds are expected to mobilise €315 billion of public and private finance for investment projects in all member states over the period 2015-2017. the establishment of the efsi, announced in november 2014, demonstrates the willingness of the commission under jean-claude juncker to deliver on its promises. it is now up to the council to take a decision quickly.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments and amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013. this plan, besides being insufficient, is yet another proof of the absurdity of the policy pursued by the union. would it not be wiser to put an end to austerity policies rather than to develop investment plans designed to counteract them? the union must stop its permanent interference in the policies of the member states so that they can serve the interests of their citizens. it would be irresponsible to support a european-wide plan whose results are more than uncertain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the proposed plan neglects national strategic imperatives and will accelerate territorial disparities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 24 june 2015 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments. with a 15% drop from the record level in 2007, it is important to boost investment in europe. the fund, in addition to other tools, will help boost employment, competitiveness and long-term growth. it will also encourage investment for smes and smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the european fund for strategic investments, which is intended to become the backbone of the investment plan for europe (the juncker plan). the fund will be set up by the commission and the european investment bank. its capital will be made up of a €5 billion contribution from the eib and a €16 billion guarantee financed from the eu budget. the counterparts are always the same: structural reforms (on the labour market, etc.) whereas the imf's research department has just shown their ineffectiveness on potential growth. 2) although it is intended to combat them, this plan will accelerate territorial disparities by selecting only the most profitable projects, to the benefit of a few large cities and agglomerations. 3) it encourages the use of public-private partnerships, which involve passing on the cost of infrastructure to future generations. 4) it undermines the state level, which is now only a supporting force for the union, and encourages direct cooperation with the regional authorities. 5) it recommends the continuation of fiscal consolidation , i.e. austerity.
in writing. ‒ the bipartisan legislative resolution on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) has definitively validated the european commission's €315 billion investment plan, known as the juncker plan. the european socialist group, and with it the french socialist delegation, had been very strongly mobilized to impose this recovery plan which europe desperately needs after several years of austerity. in this respect, i am pleased that a large part of this fund is directed as a priority to the countries of southern europe, doubly affected by the crisis and the austerity measures. it is also welcome that additional contributions from the member states will be encouraged, as they are considered to be budget-neutral. i regret, however, that the largely artificial plan hardly raises any money: it is really based on a very random multiplier effect. it also does not direct enough funds to innovative green or digital projects. finally, it will significantly reduce existing programmes for financing research or european transport networks. i believe that the juncker plan should be seen as a first step towards more investment in europe, but i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the european fund for strategic investments is the backbone of the juncker plan. noting for the umpteenth time the dramatic fall in private investment, which is the result of the disastrous austerity policies demanded by brussels, the commission, through this plan, gives us a glimpse of 315 billion euros of investment, created from a guarantee of 21 billion. this deliberately overestimated leverage effect will suffer the same fate as the 'growth and jobs pact' which is supposed to bring €60 billion in additional investment, but in fact will bring it to €20 billion. but the counterparts are always the same: the smoking structural reforms which are no longer even appreciated by the imf economists who recently admitted that they do not bring any additional growth. in reality, this plan will accelerate territorial disparities by selecting only the most profitable projects, to the benefit of a few large cities and agglomerations. finally, it will strengthen the backbone of infrastructure privatisation through public-private partnerships, which are known to have cost-effective effects on future generations. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european fund for strategic investments (juncker investment plan), which should mobilise eur 315 billion for new investment in the real economy. the eu is seeking to create leverage through a €16 billion guarantee to support public and private investment in transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure (including interconnections of transport and energy networks) and digital infrastructure. strategic investments will also include projects of common interest in the fields of urban and rural development, environment, natural resources, industry, research and innovation, culture and health. a consultative structure at european level will be set up to help identify projects, but also to prepare and develop them. its expertise will be made available to small and medium-sized enterprises at a capped cost (one third of the technical assistance costs they will receive) and free of charge for public structures. the fund aims to revitalise the union's economy without delay by facilitating access to finance and promoting the competitiveness of enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, of course, because it will eventually make it possible to realise the juncker plan, namely the mobilisation of some eur 315 billion for investment. the european union, with this initiative, is blatantly refuting the opinion that it is only seeking austerity in europe.
in writing. in particular, in the context of today's discussion of the report on the european fund for strategic investments, i would like to reiterate that it is good that the amounts to be transferred to the fund from the appropriations for science and research in horizon 2020 and from the appropriations for energy, transport and digital infrastructure in the cef have been reduced. in general, i believe that the best tool for stimulating economies is tax relief, which is more effective than investing public funds.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted yesterday in plenary the agreement reached with the council on the regulation establishing a european fund for strategic investments (efsi) which translates the juncker plan to boost investment in europe. i voted in favour of this agreement, which takes up parliament's demands to guarantee democratic control and transparency of the efsi. the agreement will also allow member states' contributions to the efsi and investment platforms (which may include public banks and local authorities) to be excluded from the calculation of budget deficits. this is a strong signal for the revival of public investment in europe and in our territories. with the commitment of the members of the committee on transport, we have succeeded in limiting the contribution to the efsi of the connecting europe facility, which finances the transeuropean transport networks. the agreement therefore makes it possible to clearly include a reference to transport projects, with a view to allocating efsi funds. finally, this agreement will allow the efsi to be operational quickly to meet the urgency of reviving investment. we will have to follow closely the implementation of the juncker plan, which aims to create more than eur 315 billion of investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of the european fund for strategic investments. this investment plan, initiated by juncker, provides for €315 billion to encourage the financing of viable investments in europe, particularly in the fields of energy and digital technology: €240 billion should be devoted to investments and €75 billion to enterprises, mainly smes. the aim is to provide an additional contribution to eib investments, based on mainly private investments, by supporting more ambitious and riskier projects. this plan represents an extraordinary opportunity for europe, which must demonstrate to its citizens more than ever its capacity to overcome the crisis. the success of the fund requires a number of conditions, including the reduction of obstacles to the completion of the single european market, the implementation of structural reforms in some countries and the mobilisation of all the actors involved. we also need to ensure more transparency in the implementation of this plan, and the european parliament has ensured that responsibilities are clearly allocated in the governance of the fund, and has also ensured that its working arrangements and democratic accountability are improved.
in writing. the annual budget available for the egf in 2015 is eur 150 million and, in accordance with article 11 (1) of the egf regulation, 0,5% of this amount (i.e. eur 811 825 in 2015) may be allocated, on the initiative of the commission, to technical assistance to finance a number of monitoring, training and information activities on the egf. this report follows a request from the commission to mobilise eur 630 000, or 0.39%. the egf, which is intended to support workers who are victims of redundancies and the consequences of globalisation, might seem like a good measure if it did not actually bridge the gaps that the eu itself has opened with its liberal policy and its desire to open its borders completely, leaving european companies to face unfair competition from many countries outside europe in particular. the report proposes not only to allocate this funding but also to raise awareness of the egf, to improve the monitoring and evaluation of the aid granted and to assess the effectiveness of the fund in the long term, or to allow more flexibility in the intervention of the member states. i have decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the report allocates eur 630 000 to the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for technical assistance to finance the preparation, monitoring, data collection and creation of a knowledge base to better assess the conditions for the implementation of the egf regulation. the purpose of the emff is to provide assistance to workers who have been made redundant as a result of changes in the structure of international trade, in order to ensure their transition to a new job. in other words, the emff is merely responding to the terrible consequences of the commission's austerity policies. like the common agricultural policy, the union gives with one hand what it takes with the other. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to provide assistance to people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade or as a result of a global economic crisis. it provides workers with additional support and assists them in their reintegration into the labour market. the report proposes to mobilise eur 630 000 of funds to provide technical assistance to the commission's services. the aim is to create a database to ensure better management and increased monitoring of the information transmitted. this is to ensure the transparency of the information and data exchanged. the report also stresses the importance of sound budgetary management and calls on the member states to monitor the use of these funds. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this report by mr deprez on the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and technical assistance on the commission's initiative. the principle of the egf can certainly be upheld, since it was set up to help workers who are victims of relocation movements and the destructive effects of globalisation. european workers, who are the first to suffer the consequences of social dumping created by uncontrolled migration flows and by the economy's manipulation of politics, deserve nothing less than this help. however, the egf seems to be part of a genuine hypocritical process on the part of the union, since it was the global rules imposed by the world trade organisation and scrupulously followed by the union that led to the deindustrialisation of europe and the dramatic employment consequences that followed.
in writing. ‒ the present report proposes that the european parliament authorise the mobilisation of eur 630 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to finance technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the objective of technical assistance is to finance the monitoring and information of member states on the mobilisation, implementation and evaluation of this fund and to create an interface to advise member states on their application. i believe that it is essential for the proper use of the egf that the member states know how it is mobilised and that they have data on the impact and implementation of this solidarity support from the european union for european workers who have lost their jobs and are looking for a new job, so i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has an annual budget of €150 million to provide financial support to people who become unemployed as a result of the crisis or globalisation. aid may be allocated to training for retraining, to setting up a business or to mobility. in this case, we have approved the release of eur 630 000 to the commission, which is responsible for managing the fund. this amount is intended in particular to improve the information and communication tools on the egf and to create an application to streamline funding applications.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: case egf/2015/000 ta 2015 - technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the latter is helping employees who have been severely affected by the financial crisis that has swept across europe. however, it should be noted that the difficulties experienced by these workers can also be attributed to the union's policy of globalism and gigantism. the gradual and already well-established removal of national frontiers puts french workers in competition with european or non-european workers. it is clear that the latter's pay has a major negative impact on the working conditions of french employees. the report therefore, despite the appearance of goodwill, highlights the union's hypocrisy.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because the gef is a mere pittance compared to the ravages of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the amount of eur 630 000 provided for technical assistance to enable the fund to function properly seems to me to be essential. networking and exchanging information on the european globalisation adjustment fund improves its effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because this report seeks to improve the effectiveness of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which in itself is not a bad thing. but this fund is a miserable cover-up that fails to hide the ravages of the ultra-liberal globalisation wanted by the european union.
in writing. ‒ the resolution put to the vote in plenary was aimed at ensuring additional technical assistance to the community institutions and the member states to make more effective use of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the fund, which has already been used in the case of the dismissal of employees at mory ducros, was set up to provide financial support and facilitate the reintegration of workers who have become inactive as a result of a disruption in international trade or the onset of a global economic crisis. in doing so, it helps to mitigate the effects of unbridled globalisation. the resolution proposes that this instrument be further promoted to the public and governments, and that technical assistance be provided to potential beneficiaries in order to exploit the full potential of the egf. the text also contains an idea which i very much welcome: that the support granted by the egf could be extended to young people aged 25 or under who are not in employment, education or training. even if it is only a marginal instrument, i consider the egf to be an indispensable instrument in the present context. i voted for the report.
in writing. this report follows a request from the commission to allocate €630 000 to the european globalisation adjustment fund under the technical assistance framework, to finance preparation, monitoring, data collection, knowledge base building, and monitoring and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation. the egf was set up to provide assistance to workers suffering the consequences of a crisis in a given sector or affected by changes in the economic structures of the member states brought about by globalisation and free trade. while the globalisation adjustment fund is a first step, it is nevertheless important to help the devastated sectors and to ensure the best possible economic transition. in this sense, the deprez report proposes to raise awareness of the egf, to improve the monitoring and evaluation of the aid granted and to assess the effectiveness of the fund in the long term or to allow more flexibility in the intervention of the member states by allowing it to provide for complementary measures, to speed up the budgetary procedure for a faster mobilisation of the egf, etc. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). this is a purely technical procedure which aims to validate the annual amount of technical assistance provided by the commission to carry out all the tasks necessary for the proper functioning of the fund: monitoring and collection of information, operation of the website, creation of a knowledge base and standardised procedures, administrative and technical support, networking, evaluation, etc. in 2015, €630,000 will be mobilised by the commission, representing 0.39% of the maximum annual budget of €150 million allocated to the egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report for two main reasons: 1) it does not go far enough and is below the report of the five presidents (in particular the proposal of the euro-zone parliament is not in it); 2) the final version of this report has lost the clarity and the breath of the original version (no eurobonds and no fiscal union, the president of the eurogroup is no longer vice-president of the commission).
in writing. the report provides the european parliament's opinion on developments in the economic and budgetary governance of the euro area and the union. in fact, this report encourages the eventual creation of a future economic government in europe whose aim is obviously to see the euro adopted by as many eu countries as possible. for good economic governance, the member states must respect convergence rules, rules which are becoming increasingly binding, after the maastricht criteria, the golden rule, the two-pack and the six-pack and finally the tscg, which really subject our economies and our governments to the dictates of brussels, even if these criteria are only very little respected by the member states. the report does, of course, advocate strengthening economic governance and reforms that the states must put in place. as a supporter of the sovereignty of the states, i strongly oppose this method of governance and a supranational body such as the european union should not dictate to the states their budgetary, economic or social choices. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends strengthening the governance of monetary union to move towards harmonisation of economic and fiscal policies among euro area member states. indeed, the macroeconomic divergences in emu threaten the stability of the monetary area and confirm that the euro area is a non-optimal monetary area as explained by paul krugman, nobel prize winning american economist. the harmonization of the structural policies of the member states, which is the commission's aim, therefore means nothing more than a lowering of the wages and social protection system of the french. this anti-democratic project is once again violating the sovereignty of france. only a concerted and early exit from the single currency would allow the states to regain their monetary sovereignty. the adjustment of parities between national currencies would thus eliminate differences in competitiveness. exchange rates could even fluctuate between two boundaries under a semi-fixed exchange rate system to avoid currency war. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report, which clearly favours greater economic integration of the member states of the union, in total disregard of the principle of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of the european nations. it should be remembered that the convergence rules give the commission the power to sanction any country which does not comply with the austerity requirements dictated by brussels. the members of the european parliament are therefore insisting on forcing the member states to adopt the same standards, even though the differences between the countries are too great in economic and budgetary terms, as in so many other respects. the requirements are also unrealistic: from the very beginning of the euro, two of the founding members of the union, belgium and italy, did not meet the maastricht criteria (a deficit not exceeding 3% of gdp and a public debt not exceeding 60% of gdp).
in writing. at the european summit in december 2014, the heads of state or government mandated presidents juncker, tusk, dijsselbloem and draghi to address the state and future of euro area convergence. we have voted to take part in this analysis. we support the commission's strategy, which is based on three pillars: investment, fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. however, it should be better implemented when issuing macroeconomic recommendations on the basis of draft national budgets. in addition, the european stability mechanism and the treaty on stability, coordination and governance should be fully integrated into the economic governance framework of the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the review of the economic governance framework: balance sheet and challenges. the text is clearly based on a pro-european ideology, reiterating the need to move gradually towards a governance system that would override the states. once again, this report therefore promotes the union's interference in the budgetary policies of the member states. i have always opposed the union's encroachment on national sovereignty. at a time when the euro is being challenged in many member states, the majority meps are doing everything to save it. no, the euro has never been a solution and we would like to be led to believe that it is the saving currency in the face of the growing discontent of the peoples of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it gives exclusive credit to european economic governance, which is now responsible for the greek crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is supposed to give the european parliament's opinion on the evolution of economic and budgetary governance in the euro area and the union. in reality, it is more a roadmap for a future economic government of europe, which clearly deviates from the principle of subsidiarity by imposing ever more binding recommendations. the berès report is very much a talkative one and it leads to a strengthening of european governance, that is to say, to further involvement of the european union in the budgetary policies, but also in the wage and social policies of the member states. it advocates the strengthening of technocratic bodies such as the eurogroup. i am opposed to the loss, even partial, of sovereignty that the rules of european governance imply. it is not for the european union to dictate to france the major balances in its budget or economic policies.
in writing. ‒ the berès report sets out the desired evolution of the union's economic and budgetary governance framework. it is very clear that it is in favour of greater integration through greater policy coordination and specific recommendation mechanisms. the federalist logic at work leads to further interference by the european union in the budgetary policies, but also in the substantive reforms, wage and social policies of the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro. since the 2008 crisis, states have been pressured to give up some of their fiscal sovereignty, have accepted a ruinous redistributive mechanism for bailing out failing states (the european stability mechanism) and have abandoned bank supervision (the first pillar of the banking union). the complexity of the procedures and the lack of transparency in the decisions of the eurogroup are additional elements against these european convergence policies. the fn wants the states to retain the choice of their economic and budgetary policy and disputes the legitimacy of the single currency, and therefore of the convergence it implies. the report is therefore against.
in writing. this report calls once again for a utopian economic governance of the euro area based on convergence criteria (respect for a certain level of deficit and public debt) which are not based on any macroeconomic basis. indeed, according to jp morgan, the countries of the euro area are even more economically dissimilar than the countries of the world beginning with the letter m. the solution to an optimal currency area is to ensure that the factors of production, including labour, are highly mobile. however, barriers such as language or cultural differences make this quite impossible. it also requires large budgetary transfers between the core of the zone and the periphery, which are unimaginable as the greek case shows. these various solutions are, moreover, an intolerable attack on sovereignty and democracy, since they foster a supranational superstate which does not meet the expectations of the peoples. such a policy would give substance to the assertion that the construction of europe is a matter of "enlightened despotism" whose effectiveness is questionable when we consider the economic disaster to which austerity has led. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of and sets out the challenges facing the euro area's economic governance framework, the central elements of which are the prevention of deficits, debt levels and excessive macroeconomic imbalances, and the coordination of economic policies. the weak results in this area must be acknowledged and, like the epp group of which i am a member, i regret that, since the launch of the euro, the consolidation efforts to implement the stability rules have been slackening. this lack of compliance is one of the fundamental causes of the sovereign debt crisis that has affected several euro area countries since 2009. that is why i am in favour of a sustainable fiscal consolidation and structural reforms that will increase competitiveness and invest in order to improve growth.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, it is important that the european parliament can give its opinion before the commission writes its roadmap for a capital market. before you go any further in this project, i would like to draw your attention to four points. the first is to remember what happened in the banking sector. you cannot develop a capital market without, at the same time, developing supervision adapted to the progress you want to achieve. you said you wanted these capital markets for financial stability. you will then have to strengthen the european character of the supervision and regulation of these capital markets. in the same way, you will be forced to watch what happens in the shadow banking sector, otherwise you will create bubbles and tools for speculation that will not serve the noble objectives you claim. the second dimension to be taken into account is the specific disinterest in the euro area. we cannot pretend that the capital markets were totally ignorant of the currencies in which they were trading. now, as you know, you have a real challenge on your hands. as regards the third dimension, you say that all this is to enable smes to have better access to the capital markets. i guess so. but it is also necessary to use such an approach to direct capital flows where we consider we need them to finance the european project. from this point of view, there is a priority in relation to the imperatives that are linked to a strategy for the ecological transition that you must carry and that you must keep in mind when you are going to move along the path of these capital markets. finally, i should like to make one last observation. i have hardly seen any mention of taxation in your texts. i think that we cannot talk about a capital union without talking about taxation. i look forward to your suggestions in this regard.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the use of resources in our economy is at the crossroads of many problems which the rapporteur rightly raises: waste, dependence on imports of raw materials and energy, and the lack of a recycling economy. while the importance of short circuits is highlighted and the report claims to set a new paradigm, it does not propose any real structural changes that would give member states the tools needed for a sustainable circular economy. the increase in international trade is not in doubt. yet it is one of the main drivers of overuse of resources and pollution. the text also seeks to strengthen a regulatory framework that is already suffocating our producers and artisans, who are the pillars of local economies and the hopes of a well-established circular economy. yes, the local level is paramount and we must take it into account in our analyses. to do this, the member states are legitimate and functional. finally, in the field of hydrocarbon imports, i would like to remind you that the union's diplomatic blunders are damaging this circular economy project. the links between our nations and the producers of the persian gulf are still too strong, while the continental relations with russia are becoming more and more eroded. let us be realistic, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the environment is our land and the great continent of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share your conviction that the economical use of our resources is an urgent necessity. the circular economy concept aims to establish this imperative as a development doctrine. but is it possible to move towards such a model when the priority is given to the most anarchic liberalism, to compulsory globalisation at all levels? a true circular economy is about being able to live, produce and work in the country, and giving priority to technological research. it is also about empowering citizens rather than imposing even more regulations and constraints on them. it is not by strengthening the regulatory powers of the european commission, or by shedding a tear over food waste, that we will succeed in preserving our environmental heritage and in reducing malnutrition in the world and poverty in europe.
mr president, commissioner, the debate is clearly about the need to impose binding targets or simply to set indicators. but indicators have been around for a long time. the commission has, let us say, been very slow to tackle the question of the circular economy, and we are now seeing that, on the specific issue of waste - i am talking here about municipal waste - if we do not have a firm ambition, nothing will happen. that is why we, the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, are supporting the idea of objectives today. they have to be realistic. it should not be overregulation, but proper regulation, and it is up to you to implement it. we trust you and we will support you in this endeavour. secondly, the circular economy can be beneficial for employment. indeed, from the moment a product becomes competitive because a discarded product is less competitive , it creates jobs and innovation. we believe that today the territories must be able to practice this circular economy to fight against globalisation. we have to put resources into it. there is a budgetary aspect to this and it would be good if the european fund for strategic investments, which is part of the juncker plan, could take a strong interest in this.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i am delighted that parliament is again calling on the commission to adopt the legislative package on the circular economy. however, we must remain cautious. in trying to set an example for the rest of the world, we risk shooting ourselves in the foot, killing the competitiveness of our smes and our companies. we must not oppose the environment to the economy. we should be talking about the efficient use of our resources, rather than the misuse of them. these notions are present in this report and i regret that, because they are biased and not proactive. we must make sure that the economy and the environment are in harmony. that is why it is important to support our companies, especially the most innovative ones. but it is also essential to support research effectively, and that is how we will set an example. i hope that the commission's proposals will be in this direction. an overall vision is needed for effective legislation, a european vision of the circular economy. before we can set a european waste target, we must have harmonised calculation methods for all member states. without that, i don't see the point of such goals. finally, i would like to focus on a more specific proposal in the fight against food waste. the commission should include in its proposal provisions to promote, at member state level, the establishment of agreements between supermarkets and food aid associations so that the latter can benefit from the sales. i hope that this proposal will be widely supported by my colleagues and that the commission will take it up.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the end of milk quotas is leading to concentration of farms, job losses and the destruction of rural areas. in 30 years the number of dairy farms has increased fivefold and 20% of dairy cows are located in farms with more than 100 cows. this means that one in three farmers may disappear in the coming years. agriculture without farmers, with the survivors forced to obey the laws of productivity of free trade, is what we have been denouncing for the last 30 years. our farmers must also suffer the consequences of your diplomatic vassalage with the russian embargo, not to mention the consequences of your transatlantic treaty on the dairy sector. your text thus emphasizes the need to place producers under the supervision of banks and private capital. since the reform of the cap in 1992, farmers have been handed over to the laws of the market. we have seen this again recently, particularly in france, where the anger of producers towards the large retailers is manifested with increasing desperation. your plan is suicidal. it's the futures markets that are killing farmers and you want to tap into that mechanism. the commission has also been able to take advantage of price volatility to increase competitiveness, as you ask in your report, by sacrificing the least profitable farms on the altar of free trade. the smaller farms could also concentrate on the internal market, thus promoting local circuits and food independence, especially in less-favoured areas, which would also be a way of preserving the territorial balance, as desertification threatens rural areas. i just want to finish, mr. president, by saying that i am outraged by the remarks of mr. ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 31 years after they were introduced, milk quotas were abolished on 1 april last. the situation is urgent and i believe that this report is timely. he is shy, but at the same time, he is fair. timid because the proposals should be stronger to support milk in europe. take the example of viticulture. today, i think we can apply to the dairy sector what happened with viticulture. the regulation of planting rights has been won by the winegrowers. what we have achieved for the wine growers in the case of planting rights, why should it be any different for milk? the dismantling of milk quotas in favour of the milk package is not enough. parliament has given priority to the interests of multinational milk companies over the defence of small producers. i think it is urgent today to try to take the model of viticulture and work on the milk sector.
mr president, commissioner, european dairy farmers are facing a new crisis, which is reflected in increased market instability and greater price volatility. this laissez-faire policy also encourages the concentration of production and penalizes farms in the most fragile regions. i hear your optimism, commissioner, but i cannot share it. i think we need to act, and act quickly. i ask the commission to present regulatory tools to control supply and manage crises through responsive and effective safety nets. i would urge that milk production be maintained in all the territories, through support for rural development and a rebalancing of aid under the first pillar. finally, i call for the current milk package to be improved by strengthening the bargaining power of producer organisations, making contracts compulsory throughout the union, including binding clauses for buyers and extending them to distribution.
mr president, the commission tells us that european farmers are now strong enough and equipped enough to face international competition, to set out to conquer new markets and to withstand price volatility, which would be contained by some miracle. being from a rural area, i'm worried. i fear that the supply will be concentrated in the territory to the detriment of small farms in the vulnerable areas. i was able to say that here five years ago when the milk quota was being abolished. unfortunately, what was planned is happening today. regulation is necessary for productions whose prices are too volatile. i think it's necessary to do this work today. i am also concerned about the consequences for beef cattle farming, the collateral effects that too great difficulties in the dairy sector could have on this farming. i think, commissioner, that more work is needed and that a new producer organization must be prepared.
madam president, i should first like to thank our colleague mr nicholson for his new work on milk, three years after the report which produced the milk package. commissioner, when we conceived this 'milk package', very few wanted contracts, let alone long contracts. it was a struggle to get these contracts into european law. i see that today, under the impact of the crisis, things have changed a little. it is perhaps necessary to consolidate these tools and provide a framework which gives real visibility to both producers and other players in the dairy sector. when the price of milk was satisfactory for the producers, we were told that we should not make contracts, that it was much better this way; the industrialists themselves did not want contracts. today, the tone is changing, and manufacturers are also finding that it would be better if they had guaranteed volumes over time. i think that this policy must be continued, but at the same time we must remember that milk is a tool of land-use planning policy. the observatory we set up gives us important information. it must be completed on the charges side. i would remind you that in the com we have now introduced a criterion which allows the commission to intervene when the producers' charges reach a price which is no longer in line with the market price. there's probably a way to explore that. you told us, commissioner, in a previous speech that the commission had taken action on exports to counter the russian problem. i think we really must continue along this path. the industrialists tell us that they need help to conquer new markets and when i say industrialists i also mean cooperatives. the commission must play its full role as a vrp alongside them, helping them to sell not only milk and milk powder but also cheese, processed products and high value-added products.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 july 2015 at 1pm. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
madam president, as you know, a hearing was held on 11 may following the european citizens' initiative stop vivisection, which has collected over 1.2 million signatures. the initiative calls on the commission to repeal directive 2010/63/eu in order to make a new proposal which would end animal testing and make the use of human-relevant data mandatory for biomedical and toxicological research. that would be a step in the right direction! the commission does not intend to submit a new proposal. she only commits to one vague conference in 2016. as if that's enough. more recently, france has authorized the extension of a primate farm in alsace, where animal associations have revealed that the primates kept there come from intensive farms and live in terrible conditions. this cruelty to animals is not even an excuse for being beneficial to man, because the animal model cannot be transferred to man. indeed, contrary to what some lobbyists say, to make us believe that drugs for alzheimer's disease tested...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, uber is a problem in many european countries. last friday, uber decided to suspend its uber-pop app in france. some already see it as a victory for the taxi drivers, who have expressed their anger, and the state, which has advocated its ban. but this response is only temporary and cannot serve as an example for the neighbouring countries. the trap would be to avoid any sustainable regulation of this rapidly expanding sector. uber and other start-ups have recently shown their quick decision-making to take advantage of the blind spots in our legislation and so they will be back one way or another. this suspension is therefore only a reprieve for the state and taxi drivers in france. and uber just announced today that they're going to invest in driverless cars. this will be a blow to the driver's profession and thus to taxis, vtcs and uber-pop. to ignore this reality is to continue to lie to the professionals in the sector throughout europe. i therefore call on the commissioner for transport to act as quickly as possible, because we will need a european response to this problem.
that item is closed.
the agenda calls for the report by jan zahradil, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the external impact of the union's trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in third countries (2014/2233(ini)) (a8-0182/2015).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 july 2015 at 1pm. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the report by nuno melo, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform (2014/2147(ini)) (a8-0170/2015).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 july 2015 at 1pm. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the report by dieter-lebrecht koch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the creation of an integrated multimodal ticketing system in europe (2014/2244 (ini)) (a8-0183/2015).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 7 july 2015 at 1pm. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that this negotiation is not a negotiation on free trade - there is already free trade with the united states - but that it is a negotiation on our democratic spaces and on our ability to decide again the society in which we want to live. commissioner, you say you consult the citizens, but listen to them! when you go to them, 97 percent of them reject arbitration. you say you speak for the employees, but listen to the employees! the employees don't want arbitration courts. they're very critical of tafta. you say you speak for the consumers, but listen to the consumers! consumers do not want these private courts and they are very critical of the transatlantic partnership. listen to the cities, listen to the regions, listen to the parliaments. stop consulting them and just do what you feel like doing in the name of an agenda which is an agenda of big business. finally, for the last three weeks, this parliament has begun to listen to european society. it was divided, and a new knight appeared in the debate: knight schulz who, using the rules of procedure, because he did not know how this parliament was going to vote, postponed the vote. it has also acted by creating an amendment on arbitration courts today with the epp group, forcing part of the socialist group to do so. mr schulz, you have not only given greek democracy to the technocrats, you also want to sell european democracy to big business. there is not a single economic argument in favour of isds! you know that. there is not a single study that says that isds promotes investment. we see american investment in europe and european investment in the united states all the time. what is at issue here is a political stance that seeks to transfer some of our sovereignty to multinational corporations, to bypass national jurisdictions that want to protect social rights, health, the environment, public services first, and to transfer that power to private courts. commissioner, you will not have us taking butcher knives for butter knives. your reforms do not change a system which is designed to circumvent national jurisdictions. so, dear social democratic friends, do not let a position that is not yours be imposed on you. you've been fighting the private courts for two years. vote on amendment 27 and you can finally make a statement to your constituents.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, at the last sitting of this parliament in strasbourg, you tried to prevent members from voting on the amendments tabled on the transatlantic treaty by using an obscure parliamentary procedure. in fact, you were afraid that this parliament would vote amendments which were against this treaty. you have failed in your attempt, because all the amendments will be put to the vote tomorrow in this house. but we will all remember that your attitude revealed a profound disregard for democracy, even though your role as president of this parliament always demands the opposite. you know, same causes cause same effects. it is precisely this contempt and this morgue that the greeks have just sent back to your face and, my god, this boomerang return is doing us a world of good! but let's get back to the bottom of this. we have in our hands a report from the european parliament on the negotiations on the transatlantic treaty. apart from a few amendments proposed by courageous members, this document is a vast hoax. parliament is not setting any red lines for the commission on this very dangerous transatlantic treaty. yet, as you know, this treaty is a bomb. our quality agriculture is in danger of disappearing if we leave the european farmer in direct competition with the american agro-industrialists. these people have no qualms about raising 40,000 cows in the fair oaks farms building, injecting all living animals with hormones to make them grow faster, washing chickens with chlorine, spraying roundup on whole fields of roundup ready gmo. is that what you want? to bring our agriculture back to this level of quality, to drown the farmers who love their produce, to sell europeans food of increasingly poor quality, to mix white wine and red wine to make rosé? the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the gulf, and it is therefore very important that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter, and that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. what will happen once the standards are aligned? there's nothing left! to change a standard, and therefore consumer protection, a nation will have to get the approval of the member states of the european union and the united states, never mind. on the other hand, any multinational company, allegedly injured in its financial interests, may summon that nation to a private court. the famous arbitration tribunal is made up of specialized business lawyers, so there will obviously be a lot of conflicts of interest. so it is the superiority of a private justice system in perpetual conflict of interest over a public and independent justice system that you want to organize. it will be another fatal blow to democracy. worse still, this transatlantic treaty will create a single market between the united states and the european union, thus dismantling the europeanist project of which you are one of the most convinced ideologues. the whole text is just a broad statement of intent to shield this parliament from the harmful consequences of the ptci! the european parliament has not elected you to cover up or to lie down, it has elected you to represent and defend it! this document is beneath everything! apart from a few amendments which oppose the transatlantic treaty, we shall therefore fight it with all our strength.
madam president, i believe there are two main reasons why the public is justifiably suspicious of this trade agreement. the first of these is not just transparency, it is that people and public opinion have not been involved in the debate. they don't know what's going on. i regret that the heads of state or government have given the commission a mandate to negotiate without having had a debate in their own member state beforehand. i hope that the national parliaments will have the opportunity to give their consent, or not, to this agreement. this is very important. the second reason is that public opinion rightly feels that we are not on an equal footing with the united states, that we are not on an equal footing with the united states and that the americans are better at defending the interests of the americans than the europeans are at defending the interests of the europeans. if we take the simple issue of public procurement, we say that we want american public procurement to be open. the us public procurement is reserved for us small and medium-sized enterprises. the americans are right to do so. europeans should do that. i therefore ask you, and i ask us, to look at these two fundamental reasons which are largely at the root of the legitimately expressed doubts and concerns.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must not get the debate we have today wrong. it is not a question of voting for or against the transatlantic partnership. the negotiators must be strongly reminded of the basic principles they must respect. this agreement must be negotiated in the spirit of mutual benefit, but we will not accept it at any price. i want to remind you of our red lines. we will be uncompromising on the protection of our cultural diversity, including the exclusion of audiovisual services from the negotiations, and on our choice of companies. we will not accept any weakening of our social, health and environmental standards. public services will also have to be excluded from the negotiations. we must also protect our agriculture, in particular by excluding sensitive agricultural products and by fully respecting our geographical indications. another essential condition is the opening up of us markets, particularly public procurement, especially for smes. as regards isds, we reject this mechanism as it exists today. we will accept a dispute settlement mechanism only if it is thoroughly reformed and respects democratic principles. it will have to be transparent, include an appeal mechanism, operate with judges free from any influence and above all not call into question the right of states to regulate. we have heard the concerns of the citizens and the negotiators must know that we will not accept this agreement if it does not meet these conditions.
madam president, the persistence with which we are being urged to vote in favour of the proposed transatlantic treaty is beyond suspicion, at a time when new revelations show that our governments, heads of state and business leaders are being listened to by north american leaders. this should have already led us to suspend the negotiations. the transatlantic project is also an anti-european project, since it will merge our economies into a vast single market called free trade, where multinationals will be the masters of the game, against states and peoples. we must not let what is being proposed to us, namely the law of business over human rights, come first. this debate must go beyond this, it must be taken to the european public square, and the people must be consulted.
madam president, if we are to play our full role as european parliamentarians, i think we must be able to send a clear message to the commission, which negotiates on behalf of the european union and which sometimes - it must be admitted - is surprisingly naive when it comes to free trade, and sometimes - i must say - is blind and logical. we must also send a clear message to our fellow citizens who have repeatedly raised this issue and expressed a number of doubts and fears, often justified. the resolution by mr bernd lange is ambitious and in many respects it is, not least because our colleague mr lange is keen to reassure and protect workers and consumers, but it still contains too many ambiguous, too many sophisticated and too complicated formulae which, in the end, make it impossible for us to be reassured. we are not satisfied with the isds and we must make it clear: we do not want a private arbitration system. let's go with a public system. we are not sure about public services either. there's too much ambiguity. we need a real positive list which clearly excludes a number of sectors from liberalisation. finally, we are not sufficiently reassured about regulatory cooperation, because there are risks of harmonisation from below. that's why we need to be clearer and more determined... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, madam commissioner, from where we are, here in this chamber, we have stereo sound. whether it comes from the extreme right or the extreme left, the rhetoric is the same. the end of our independence, the end of our model of society. we're about to hear that it will, in fact, be the end of the world. but we must look at the outside world to see the value of negotiations. asia, america, the pacific and, recently, africa are joining forces to confront globalization together, while in europe we have populist movements calling for a retreat into the self. you overestimate the united states, but you underestimate europe. is that being patriotic? is that being an alter-globalist? negotiating is not selling your soul, it's an opportunity to put the wrong thing on the table, not while being vigilant. we can negotiate, but not at any price. it's sad to see all those who are trying to give the ptci a liability, when it has no past. negotiating with the americans means defending our multinationals in the face of barack obama's choice to change the rules, defending our smes to open up public markets to them, defending our know-how to allow companies to promote our gastronomy, especially french. it is also, ladies and gentlemen, defending our consumers and our fellow citizens by ensuring that they have a hegemony over international standards in a sometimes brutal globalisation. that is why i want to discuss and negotiate concretely instead of just talking. mrs malmström's work as a teacher is necessary and makes me think that we can no longer afford to be ineffective... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago we held a debate in this house on the transatlantic partnership to reaffirm our determination to exercise our duty of vigilance and our power of influence throughout the negotiations. on that occasion we made clear the priorities and the red lines of parliament on this agreement: transparency, strict respect for all the laws and collective preferences which underpin our european social model, the highest standards in the field of the environment, public health, food safety, social rights and fundamental rights, the protection of our geographical indications, our public services and cultural diversity and, finally, the exclusion of private arbitration for the settlement of disputes between investors and states. the resolution before us reflects many of these concerns and i would like to thank our colleague, mr bernd lange, very sincerely for the excellent work he has done. however, this text is not sufficient, as it remains vague on the question of isds. there is no room for compromise on this important issue. i therefore call on us to vote in favour of amendment no 27 which is being put to us. i believe that the national courts have full jurisdiction to rule on disputes between investors and states. the esdp is not necessary, either in the short or long term, and its use must be excluded, as we are being asked to do by european citizens, trade unions and associations. it's an imperative!
mrs willmott, i do believe that the whole of parliament shares your statements and the memory of the victims.
madam president, the subject is less serious, although it is important that this parliament respects principles, especially when it spends its life teaching respect for democracy. all the group chairmen in this parliament sit in the front row of the chamber. you have refused this right to the europe of nations and freedoms group without any valid reason. you are violating the basic rules of democracy. you have once again shown your contempt for the will of the people who elected us. you're not getting any benefit from this miserable filth! wherever you are in this house, you will hear our voice, which bothers you so much, and the voice of the millions of voters we represent. but you know, it's not that big of a deal, because they say when a plane crashes, it's better not to be in the front row! given the state of the european union, it seems you're doing us a favor!
mrs le pen, this discussion took place in the conference of presidents.
the blue card procedure is an option and not necessarily an obligation. i think there's been a lot of interventions on the ptci this morning.
thank you for that clarification, mr. castaldo. one last reminder of the rules, mr. batten.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
it is not a question of sacrifice at all, mrs jiménez-becerril barrio, but if you wish, we can have a minute's silence. i suggest we respect it now. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
this closes the voting.
the agenda calls for explanations of vote.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ the report by igor šoltes from slovenia deals with the proposed appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen from denmark as a member of the court of auditors. the text presents the curriculum vitae of ms jakobsen, deputy auditor general of the danish court of auditors since october 2009, and then gives the answers to the questionnaire to which she was submitted. i note that mrs jakobsen worked at nato headquarters from 1997 to 2002 and more recently at the eib (european investment bank). in her answers to the questionnaire, the applicant stressed her desire to be objective and impartial. the committee on budgetary control voted unanimously in favour of his nomination. i, for my part, have refrained from doing so, waiting to see whether the deeds will be in accordance with these good intentions.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the appointment of ms bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the european court of auditors. ms jakobsen's cv shows a strong background in denmark for 25 years as an assistant auditor at the citizens' chamber, responsible for carrying out audits in key areas related to citizens in various ministries. she has also held international positions with nato and the eib. the report also includes answers to a questionnaire sent to the company. it emphasises the objective, neutral and impartial performance of its duties, indicating that the control of public finances is an important element. we have a duty to report to the citizens and to the committee on budgetary control on the use of public funds, especially european funds. i did, however, abstain on this vote in order not to support the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this report concerning the proposal to appoint bettina michelle jakobsen to the court of auditors. it is true that one cannot help but be impressed by ms jakobsen's background: deputy auditor general at the head of the citizens' chamber, responsible for carrying out audits in the main areas related to citizens in various danish ministries, her experience of more than 25 years in public finance may seem an asset. however, i question the legitimacy of the court of auditors and i am not particularly convinced by the assurances given by mrs jakobsen that she will carry out her mandate with objectivity, neutrality and impartiality: given her previous posts at nato and the eib, it is almost certain that she supports a globalist view. that is why i have abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the appointment of ms bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. in view of the experience of ms jakobsen, currently deputy auditor general in denmark in charge of the audit of the state's accounts in the public accounts committee, and following her successful hearing in the parliamentary committee in charge of budgetary control, i voted in favour of this appointment.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because i do not recognise the legitimacy of the court of auditors as an institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague igor šoltes on the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. ms jakobsen has spent her entire career in financial control and audit and has been deputy auditor general of the danish court of auditors since 2013. mrs jakobsen therefore has all the qualifications required to be a member of the european court of auditors. this nomination was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen to the court of auditors. her past experience and qualifications will make her a competent member.
in writing. ‒ the appointment of the members of the court of auditors is one of the powers of the european parliament. in fact, it is not. although parliament does vote by a simple majority on the members of the court of auditors proposed by the council, its opinion remains purely advisory. the council may disregard it, as it has done in previous negative votes in parliament. the proposed candidate is bettina michelle jakobsen from denmark. her skills in public management are not required to be demonstrated and, moreover, she declares in her candidacy to be 'a supporter of zero tolerance towards fraud and corruption'. however, it remains a budgetary 'orthodox' and i find it hard to believe that it will oppose european austerity policies. i cannot therefore vote in favour of his appointment, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ mrs jakobsen's nomination to the court of auditors is a technical appointment and does not give rise to any particular remarks. the enf members abstained.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to propose the appointment of a member of the court of auditors, bettina michelle jakobsen. although mrs jakobsen's curriculum vitae is perfectly suited to this post (she was for 25 years assistant auditor of the chamber of citizens, responsible for carrying out audits in the main areas related to citizens in various ministries, and later held posts in international institutions) and although she answered a questionnaire highlighting her qualities, objectivity and impartiality, i decided to abstain from voting on this text as i deny the existence of this supranational court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen to the court of auditors. in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the proposal for the appointment of the council was forwarded to the european parliament. the parliamentary committee on budgetary control has heard bettina michelle jakobsen and assessed her qualifications. i followed the advice of that committee.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the appointment of a member of the court of auditors, bettina michelle jakobsen. ms jakobsen's cv seems to be perfect for this post: she was for 25 years deputy auditor at the chamber of citizens, responsible for carrying out audits in the main areas related to citizens in various ministries, and then she held positions in international institutions. she also completed a questionnaire highlighting her qualities, objectivity and impartiality. however, i deny any jurisdiction to this supranational court of auditors which infringes the free sovereignty of peoples and i have therefore decided to abstain from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of bettina michelle jakobsen's nomination to the court of auditors of the european union, because of her profile and experience.
in writing. ‒ the report presents the candidacy of bettina michelle jakobsen for the post of member of the european court of auditors. deputy auditor general at the head of the citizens' chamber, responsible for carrying out audits in the main areas related to citizens in various danish ministries, she has over 25 years' experience in public finance. the report details her career, the positions she has held in her country, denmark, but also internationally with nato or the eib, among others. the report also includes the answers to a questionnaire sent to her by the committee on budgetary control concerning her previous duties and her vision and ambitions for the post to which she is appointed. in its replies, it states that control of public finances is an important element that can make a difference in the lives of citizens. it is emphasized that the commission intends to fulfil its duties by offering all possible guarantees of objectivity, neutrality and impartiality. i abstained on that vote.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution would like each member state to consult the union before concluding an international trade treaty. this is a further step towards further federalising the union, in defiance of the sovereignty of the member states. as a member of the europe of nations, i would like each member state to remain free to conclude trade agreements, whether with other member states or with third countries. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is limited to a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ once again, an attempt is being made to impose a 'common trade policy' on us, which is being dictated by erroneous geopolitical considerations rather than by the well-considered interests of our countries. i voted against this because i believe that each member state should be free to negotiate the trade agreements it considers to be in the interests of its own people.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing union procedures in matters of common commercial policy with a view to ensuring the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation (wto). in the committee on legal affairs our members have said that each member state should be free to negotiate trade agreements itself without a decision from the european union and it is on this principle that i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. i voted against this report setting up union procedures on the common commercial policy . i consider that each member state must retain the exercise of the rights conferred by the various rules laid down by international trade law.
in writing. ‒ making legislation simple and accessible is a priority for the european institutions. as such, codification makes it possible to group together different regulations dealing with the same subject into a single text in order to facilitate its application. i voted in favour of this report on the codification of the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to put in place procedures to ensure that the union exercises the rights conferred on it by international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the wto . i am opposed in principle to article 3 of the eu treaty, which states that trade policy is the exclusive competence of the european union, with the commission as the sole interlocutor, both internally and externally, and the commission as the negotiator representing the 28 member states. under the treaties, they are not entitled to attend the negotiations and, where they are present (wto, etc.), they can only speak at national level and not at european level. this stripping of the sovereignty of the member states in trade matters thus prevents each nation from pursuing policies in the interests of its businesses, industries or citizens. denying each member state the possibility of negotiating trade agreements which are necessary or strategic for its country is a denial of freedom and development which would be to be reversed by renegotiating the treaties. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to codify council regulation (ec) no 3286/94 of 22 december 1994 laying down community procedures in matters of common commercial policy with a view to ensuring the exercise by the community of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation (wto). the legislation provides that where the union, having received a complaint on behalf of a european industry, a complaint on behalf of european undertakings or a request from a member state to initiate proceedings in the field of the common commercial policy, follows formal international consultation or dispute settlement procedures, the decisions to initiate, conduct and close such procedures shall be taken by the european commission after informing the co-legislators. i have voted in favour of this text, considering that it is merely a codification of existing legislation without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ the text codifies certain european rules on trade. the european commission will now be able to initiate, conduct and close international dispute settlement procedures from the moment it receives a complaint from european companies. this new procedure will improve the coherence and effectiveness of the european trade policy, which is the exclusive competence of the union. the member states will of course be informed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing union procedures in matters of common commercial policy with a view to ensuring the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation. throughout my first year in office, i reaffirmed the principles that condition my political commitment. as a french member of the european parliament, i represent my country and its interests in a union without frontiers. i therefore reaffirm my vote to preserve the national sovereignty of the member states. i believe that trade agreements should be negotiated only by the states concerned, capable of drawing up compromises in the interests of the peoples concerned. the union must not be the centrepiece of these negotiations and must stop encroaching on national prerogatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i believe that each member state should be free to negotiate trade agreements as it sees fit, without going through the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report on the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade. this draft resolution makes a major change in the diplomatic rules of the member states. each member state of the union would thus be obliged to seek the opinion of the union before concluding an international treaty. this proposal is directly contrary to the national sovereignty of the member states: they must remain free to conduct their diplomatic relations as they see fit, even if, and especially if, the union's diplomacy is contrary to their interests. such an encroachment on the freedom and sovereignty of the member states is absolutely unacceptable, especially since there is a strong possibility that this resolution will damage the economy of some countries of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr jiří maštálka, on the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade. this text, which is essentially technical, simplifies the various european and international legislation by bringing the relevant legislative texts together in a single corpus. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution establishing union procedures on the common commercial policy to ensure the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation (wto). this vote is the result of an accelerated procedure for simplification and clarification of the law and does not affect the legal consequences of the initial version.
in writing. ‒ each member state should remain free to negotiate trade agreements as it sees fit, without going through the european union. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that each member state should be free to negotiate its own trade agreements as it sees fit, without going through the european union.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report aims to give the european union prerogatives to negotiate trade policy. this is of course in line with the proposal to put the member states under the control of the european institutions, which must increasingly follow the decisions taken by the european institutions. as a sovereignist, i cannot support such a project. member states must be free to negotiate any trade agreement in their own interests.
in writing. - i voted against this text. it regulates the union's procedures in the field of the common commercial policy, thus enabling the union to exercise its rights in international trade. we are formally opposed to this text because trade agreements and their negotiation should be the responsibility of the member states and not of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify the regulation on european union rights in commercial matters. this is a purely technical report. however, since the regulation is being codified with the main aim of 'reacting to trade barriers', i am voting against this text which favours the most extreme liberalism.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution would like each member state to go through the european union before concluding an international treaty. we see very clearly that this is an attempt to unify, to federate the union even more. this will not benefit the economies of the member states, which are already struggling to compete internationally. it is also clear that this kind of proposal violates and reduces the national sovereignty of each of the member states. states must remain free from the trade agreements it concludes, whether with european partners or not. in order to protect the sovereignty of each member state and not to add to the burden on the economies of european countries, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the text is the codification of regulation (ec) no 3286/94, which gives the european union a power to negotiate trade. it provides in particular that in the event of litigation (such as a complaint on behalf of an industry or undertaking in the union, or a request by a member state to initiate proceedings in the field of the common commercial policy), the commission may decide to initiate or close the procedure on its own initiative, simply by informing the member states. french patriots are in favour of national sovereignty in this matter and therefore cannot support this text.
in writing. the purpose of this report entitled exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade is to establish the common commercial policy to be pursued by the european union by virtue of its exclusive competence in international trade. i am absolutely opposed to the common commercial policy, which is nothing but a submission to the globalist logic, and considering that it is up to each member state to determine freely the commercial policy it must follow, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical text on the exercise by the union of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade. it is a codification of existing texts on the procedures for the union's common commercial policy in the light of international trade rules, in particular those established under the auspices of the world trade organisation.
in writing. ‒ the report, entitled 'the union's exercise of the rights conferred on it by the rules of international trade', sets out the common commercial policy to be pursued by the european union in the light of its powers in international trade. i am opposed to the allocation of these powers and i am firmly opposed to the common commercial policy, which is nothing but a submission to the globalist logic. i think it is up to each member state to determine freely the trade policy it intends to implement. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the codification of the regulation on the union's procedures for the common commercial policy in order to ensure that the union can exercise the rights conferred on it by international trade rules, in particular those established by the world trade organisation (wto). this procedure helps to clarify and simplify the legislative text.
in writing. ‒ each member state must remain free to negotiate trade agreements as it sees fit, without going through the european union. i therefore oppose this text.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ recital 5 of this report provides protection for member states' shipyards against unfair competition from third countries which purchase ships at particularly low prices. french shipyards have suffered particularly from these practices, and we must therefore pay particular attention to them. this industry is still one of the jewels of our national production and we must protect it. for that reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is limited to a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance.
in writing. ‒ far from being perfect, this report is nevertheless moving in the right direction and i therefore voted in favour. the aim is to protect the shipyards of the member states against competition from certain countries for vessels purchased at low prices.
in writing. the purpose of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding is to codify the system for protecting member states' shipyards against competition from certain countries in respect of ships acquired at debasing prices. this report is in the right direction, since it seeks to provide protection, even relative, for french shipyards, since the proposal for a directive states that the european union must react by taking strict measures against any vessel that has been the object of harmful price practices, the sale of which below normal value causes damage to the industry of the countries of the european union. i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on defence against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding. the purpose of this codification is to protect european shipyards against low-priced vessels. the text may thus offer some protection to french shipyards, which are fighting unfair competition. it provides that the union is to take action against any vessel which has been the subject of injurious pricing practices and whose sale below normal value causes injury to the union industry.
in writing. ‒ proposing effective and transparent regulations is one of the main objectives of european co-legislators. in this context, codification makes it possible to group together, within one text, different pieces of legislation dealing with the same subject. it thus allows for greater simplification and greater accessibility. i voted in favour of this report on the codification of the defence against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding. this provision would protect shipyards in the member states from unfair competition from third countries in this field. with these large projects, such as the one in saint-nazaire, france is particularly affected by such measures. the proposal for a directive recognises the need for the union to take action against any vessel which has been the subject of harmful price practices, such as selling below its normal value. i therefore voted in favour of this text, considering that it amounts to a relative protection of european industries.
in writing. ‒ this report codifies regulation (ec) no 385/96 on protection against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding. i have voted in favour of this text, as this report proposes merely a codification of existing legislation without any substantial changes.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of clarity and transparency of the law, the european parliament has codified the regulation on protection against harmful pricing practices in shipbuilding. since the shipbuilding sector is governed by specific provisions, in particular to combat unfair competition, the aim was to bring together in a single new text the various rules contained in several legislative acts. this will make it possible to simplify european law, which is too often the work of experts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding. my vote is for greater protection of the french shipping market. it is a question of restoring fairness and equity in work. many non-european countries are building ships that they sell at much lower prices, while minimizing the conditions of the workers. we must remember the quality of the french shipyard and our determination to improve the living standards of its employees. competition can be beneficial, but it can be toxic when it is unfair. this is why non-european practices must not influence french practices, which guarantee respect for the worker.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding. recital 5 provides protection for member states' shipyards against unfair competition from third countries which purchase ships at particularly low prices. french shipyards have suffered particularly from these practices, and we must therefore pay particular attention to them. this industry is still one of the jewels of our national production and we must protect it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr jiří maštálka, on the defence against harmful pricing practices in shipbuilding. this essentially technical text simplifies the various european and international legislation by bringing the relevant legislative texts together in a single corpus. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 7 july 2015 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on defence against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding. this vote is the result of an accelerated procedure for simplification and clarification of the law and does not affect the legal consequences of the initial version.
in writing. ‒ the proposed codification aims to protect member states' shipyards against competition from certain countries for vessels acquired at low prices. the adaptation of recital 5 may offer some protection for french shipyards. the proposal for a directive provides that 'the union must take action against any vessel which has been the object of harmful pricing practices and whose sale below normal value causes injury to the union industry'. votes in favour of the motion for a resolution (doc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to protect member states' shipyards from unfair competition from certain third countries.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the introduction of this legislation will help to protect the shipyards of the member states against competition from certain countries which manufacture and sell ships below market value. the french shipyards will thus be protected, and we are pleased about that.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to codify the regulation on the protection against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding. the purpose of this regulation is to provide for an effective means of protection against sales of ships below their normal value. this led to the adoption of a code of harmful pricing practices in shipbuilding: the shipbuilding agreement which itself builds on the 1994 anti-dumping agreement. this is a purely technical report. nevertheless, it brings together the customs tools necessary for the establishment of a protectionist policy based on solidarity in the shipbuilding sector. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ recital 5 provides protection for member states' shipyards against unfair competition from third countries which purchase ships at particularly low prices. french shipyards have suffered particularly from these practices, and we must therefore pay particular attention to them. this industry is still one of the jewels of our national production and we must protect it. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ unfair competition generated by open borders exposes our shipping industry to social and fiscal dumping by foreign countries, as well as to inequalities in production and safety standards. we support this proposal which allows for measures to be taken against vessels acquired on financial terms which are detrimental to our national shipyards.
in writing. the purpose of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protection against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding is to codify the system for protecting member states' shipyards against competition from certain countries in respect of ships acquired at bargain prices. i decided to vote in favour of this text because it provides protection, even relative, for french shipyards, since the proposal for a directive states that the european union must react by taking strict measures against any vessel which has been the object of harmful price practices and whose sale below normal value causes injury to the industry of the countries of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical text on defending the union against harmful pricing practices in shipbuilding. it is a codification of existing texts under the accelerated interinstitutional procedure for simplification and clarification of the law. the codified version of the text, drawn up by the legal services of the commission, the council and parliament, has exactly the same legal consequences as the original version.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to propose better protection for member states' shipyards against unfair competition from certain countries in respect of low-cost vessels. the adaptation of recital 5 in particular may in part protect french shipyards. the text provides that 'the union must take action against any vessel which has been the object of injurious pricing practices and whose sale below normal value causes injury to the union industry'. for once, the european union is concerned about protecting an important industry. therefore, not wishing to miss such a rare opportunity, i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of the codification of the regulation on the defence against injurious pricing practices in shipbuilding. this procedure helps to simplify and clarify the text without changing its legal consequences.
in writing. ‒ the proposed codification aims to protect member states' shipyards against competition from certain countries for vessels acquired at low prices. the adaptation of the initial recital 5 may offer some protection for french shipyards. the proposal for a directive provides that 'the union must take action against any vessel which has been the object of harmful pricing practices and whose sale below normal value causes injury to the union industry'. i voted for this text.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ there are very close links between venezuelan fishermen and french guiana canneries. the report advocates authorising fishing, in return for which 75% of the fishery products will be processed on french territory. the fishing potential off the coast of french guiana is particularly large, but remains to this day under-exploited. finally, the agreement also aims to reduce illegal fishing by venezuelan fishermen. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it allows the processing industry in french guiana to survive, which depends in part on the exploitation by venezuelan fishing vessels of the living natural resources of the exclusive economic zone off the coast. given the economic and social importance of this activity in the region, venezuelan fishing vessels have been allowed to fish for several decades on the condition that part of the fish is landed in guyanese ports.
in writing. ‒ after lengthy negotiations, the aim is to allow access for venezuelan fishing vessels to french guiana waters. but this authorization is not without its counterparts: martinique vessels will henceforth be able to fish for vibnual or tuna off venezuela. in addition, 75% of the fish caught by venezuelan vessels will be landed in guyana for processing. indeed, there are longstanding links between venezuelan fishermen and french guiana canneries. it will be argued that french guiana should be able to develop its own fisheries and exploit its large fishery potential, which includes various species of shrimp and 200 species of fish. however, the counterparts so far seem to me to be satisfactory, in particular the limitation of illegal fishing by venezuelans. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report on fishing opportunities in eu waters for fishing vessels flying the flag of venezuela off the coast of french guiana is intended to allow venezuelan fishing vessels access to french guiana waters (41 in 2013) 12 miles offshore and allowing fish processing in french guiana. however, this report was delayed by the conflict between parliament and the council, since the council had initially adopted the agreement without consulting parliament. in return, martinican fishing vessels have the opportunity to fish for certain fish off the coast of venezuela. guyana has a large fishery potential which is still under exploited and it would be worth developing its own fisheries. however, as things stand, there are countermeasures and these limit illegal fishing by venezuelans, especially since there are historical links between venezuelan fishermen and french canneries in french guiana. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ landing and processing of fishery products is a significant source of income and employment for french guiana. for several decades, venezuelan fishing vessels have been authorised to fish in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of this region. the fishing authorisation is subject to the condition that part of the fishery is landed in guyanese ports. following an institutional conflict, the court annulled the council's position, which had been adopted without parliament's approval. this report makes it possible to complete the procedure for approving the new commission proposal in compliance with the appropriate legal basis (article 43 (2) and article 218 (6) (a) of the tfeu). the approval of this agreement will support the activity in the french department of guyana.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to allow access for venezuelan fishing vessels to french guiana waters. in addition to the historical links between venezuelan fishermen and french canneries, the agreement provides a lucrative counterpart for french interests: martinican vessels will have the opportunity to fish for vivanelle or tuna off the coast of venezuela. in addition, 75% of the fish caught by venezuelan vessels is landed in guyana for processing, which creates a real dynamic for our local businesses. even though guyana should be able to develop its own fisheries, the counterparts provided for in the agreement are fruitful for the local industry.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to approve the council decision authorising vessels flying the flag of venezuela to operate in french guiana waters, provided that part of the fisheries is landed in guyanese ports. venezuela has also complied with eu legislation on fishing declarations, the maximum number of fishing vessels authorised and the percentage of catches to be landed, the conservation of target fish stocks and the respect of types of fishing gear. i have voted in favour of this report because i believe that such an authorization is of economic and social importance and will help to maintain employment and activity in french guiana.
in writing. the waters of french guiana are rich in fishery resources. however, the processing industry in this territory depends on the landings made by venezuelan vessels. this is why a fisheries agreement has existed for several decades between the european union and venezuela, allowing venezuelan fishermen access to the waters of the exclusive economic zone off french guiana. with this vote, we have validated the continuation of such a partnership.
in writing. ‒ vessels flying the flag of venezuela may be authorised to fish off the coast of guyana, provided they comply with eu rules on the conservation and management of fisheries resources. ensuring the continuity of fishing activities is vital to the processing industry in french guiana, which depends on landings by venezuelan vessels. the economy of french guiana, an outermost region of europe, is weakly diversified and largely based on the maritime sector. so we have to be especially careful.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the allocation of fishing opportunities in european union waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. on the one hand, this means taking into account the local realities between french guiana and venezuela, which have been cooperating for many years. on the other hand, there is a need to understand the french interest in this agreement. if venezuela gains access to european waters, french guiana fishermen will be able to exploit certain resources off the coast of venezuela. these are common sense measures designed to serve the interests of all. this will enable french fishing vessels to access species not present in their waters. finally, the agreement could contribute to the intensification of port activities in french guiana.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the report on fishing opportunities in eu waters for fishing vessels flying the flag of venezuela off the coast of french guiana. the links between venezuelan fishermen and french guyana's canneries are very close. the aim is to authorize fishing, in return for which a large part of the fishery products, up to 75%, will be processed on french territory. the fishing potential off guyana is particularly large, but remains currently under-exploited. finally, the agreement also aims to reduce illegal fishing by venezuelans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague joão ferreira on the fishing opportunities in eu waters for venezuelan vessels off the coast of french guiana. this report authorises vessels flying the venezuelan flag to fish off the coast of french guiana. this agreement is already in force in france and allows a win-win situation between venezuelan fishermen and guyanese ports by validating a legal format that will allow a better coverage of the situation by international law. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities in european union waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. this allocation benefits both parties, in particular for the maintenance of employment and activity in guyana.
in writing. ‒ background: there are longstanding links between venezuelan fishermen and french canneries in french guiana. it should be noted that the adoption of this report was delayed by an institutional conflict between the council and parliament: the council had initially adopted the agreement without consulting parliament, contrary to the principle of codecision in fisheries agreements. purpose: to allow access for venezuelan fishing vessels to french guiana waters (41 in 2013), 12 miles offshore, with fish processing taking place in french guiana. counterparties: possibility for martinican vessels to fish for vibans or tuna in the waters off venezuela. 75% of the fish caught by venezuelan vessels are landed in guyana for processing. problem: guyana has a large fishery potential, with various species of shrimp and 200 species of fish, which is currently under-exploited. recommendation: for the explanation of vote: french guiana should be able to develop its own fisheries. nevertheless, there are countermeasures that limit illegal fishing by venezuelans.
in writing. - i voted yes. the purpose of the project is to allow venezuelan vessels to fish in french guiana waters within a well-defined radius. a large part of the fish caught (75%) will be processed in french guiana. in return, martinican fishing vessels will be able to fish for certain species off the coast of venezuela. there have been long-standing economic relations between venezuelan fisheries and the processing industries of french guiana. the negative side of the project is that guyana has significant fisheries resources which it does not exploit as it could due to lack of material resources. we regret its inability to develop its own fisheries and thus to access important resources on its own. but the agreement provided for in this text regulates and regulates a practice that is already in progress and thus limits illegal fishing. moreover, the consideration is genuine and correct.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this balanced text which allows venezuelan fishing vessels to fish in french territorial waters. 75% of these fish are landed in guyana for processing. in return, martinican vessels will have the opportunity to fish off the coast of venezuela. france is winning on both fronts of the processing of venezuelan fisheries and of fisheries off venezuela.
in writing. ‒ the processing industry in french guiana depends in part on the exploitation by venezuelan fishing vessels of the living natural resources of the exclusive economic zone off the coast. given the economic and social importance of this activity in the region, venezuelan fishing vessels have been allowed to fish for several decades on the condition that part of the fish is landed in guyanese ports. however, in the absence of an international agreement between the european union and venezuela in the field of fisheries, this practice is in conflict with the legal order of the european union. to remedy this, the council submitted to the european parliament for approval a declaration in which the european union undertook to cede fishing rights to venezuelan vessels. the text aims to approve the agreement as soon as possible in order to bring it into line with european union law. in favour of wider cooperation between france and venezuela, i can only welcome this agreement, i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ there are very close links between venezuelan fishermen and french guiana canneries. the aim is to authorize fishing, in return for which a large part of the fishery products, up to 75%, will be processed on french territory. the fishing potential off guyana is particularly large, but remains currently under-exploited. finally, the agreement also aims to reduce illegal fishing by venezuelans. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ ideally, guyana should be able to make full use of the fishery resources available in these waters through the development of its fishing activity. however, since the vast majority of fish caught is landed and processed in guyana, thus supporting a national industrial activity, we are in favour of this proposal to allow venezuelan vessels to fish off the french coast. the proposal also has the potential to limit illegal fishing already taking place in these waters.
in writing. the report on fishing opportunities in eu waters for fishing vessels flying the flag of venezuela off the coast of french guiana by joão ferreira aims to allow venezuelan vessels to fish in french guiana's territorial waters 12 miles offshore while leaving the processing of the fishery product in french guiana. the counterpart to this access to guyanese exclusive zones is the permission left to martinican vessels to fish off the venezuelan coast. a number of safeguards are proposed to limit illegal fishing. however, guyana has untapped fisheries resources and would be well-placed to develop its own fisheries. this report was marked by the conflict between the council and parliament, since the latter had forgotten to be consulted. as a result, the process was slowed down. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text concerning the fishing opportunities for venezuelan vessels off the coast of french guiana. the processing of fishery products is of great economic and social importance in french guiana. therefore, venezuelan fishermen are allowed to fish in this sea area provided that part of the fish is landed in guyanese ports. these fishing opportunities help to maintain employment and activity in guyana.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the fishing opportunities for fishing vessels flying the flag of the republic of venezuela in the eez off french guiana. this agreement confirms and regulates a practice which has existed for many years, in perfect collaboration and complementarity with guyanese fisheries. the agreement also provides for the obligation to land in guyana, which is a very important contribution to guyanese processing industries and thus contributes to economic activity and employment in guyana.
in writing. ‒ the report on fishing opportunities in eu waters for fishing vessels flying the flag of venezuela off the coast of french guiana aims to allow venezuelan vessels to fish in french guiana's territorial waters, 12 miles offshore, while leaving the processing of fishery products in french guiana. the counterpart to this access to the french exclusive zones of french guiana is the permission given to french vessels from martinique to fish off the venezuelan coast. a number of safeguards are proposed to try to limit illegal fishing. however, guyana has untapped fisheries resources and would be well-placed to develop its own fisheries. this report was marked by a conflict between the council and the parliament, since the latter had been forgotten (i.e. its importance in the minds of some). i voted for this report, which will benefit my compatriots in guyana, although i think it is up to france alone to negotiate and sign this type of agreement itself.
in writing. ‒ following the conflict between the european union and venezuela over the exploitation of fisheries off the coast of french guiana, the european commission has proposed to commit to transferring fishing rights to venezuelan vessels. i voted in favour of this report, which approves the commission's proposal to allow venezuelan fishing vessels to operate in the territorial waters of the union. this decision is all the more important as the processing industry in french guiana is largely dependent on the activity of venezuelan vessels.
in writing. ‒ there are longstanding links between venezuelan fishermen and french canneries in french guiana. it should be noted that the adoption of this report was delayed by an institutional conflict between the council and parliament: the council had initially adopted the agreement without consulting parliament, contrary to the principle of codecision in fisheries agreements. the purpose of this text is to allow venezuelan fishing vessels access to french guiana waters 12 miles off the coast; the processing of fish in french guiana. in return, martinican vessels would be able to fish for vibanela or tuna off the coast of venezuela. 75% of the fish caught by venezuelan vessels are landed in guyana for processing. guyana has a large fishery potential, with various species of shrimp and 200 species of fish, which is currently under-exploited. french guiana should be able to develop its own fisheries. nevertheless, there are countermeasures that limit illegal fishing by venezuelans. i am voting in favour of this text.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the aim is to record a surplus of eur 1.435 billion carried over from the previous year in 2015. this postponement could reduce the member states' contribution to the eu budget for the financial year 2015. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of dab no 3/2015, regretting that the budget surplus cannot be reallocated to the payment of european arrears.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed to record for the 2015 financial year a surplus of eur 1.435 billion from the previous year. i guess so. but what are we waiting for to reduce the member states' contribution to the european union budget for the same financial year 2015?
in writing. in april, the commission adopted draft amending budget 3/2015. it covers the budgeting of the surplus of the previous year as provided for in article 18 of the financial regulation of the general budget of the european union. the implementation of the 2014 budget left a surplus of eur 1,435 billion, which should therefore be entered as revenue in the 2015 budget. this surplus was mainly due to late payment interest and fines (eur 634 million) and positive own resources execution (eur 479 million). the adoption of this amending budget should make it possible to reduce the member states' contribution to the union budget for the financial year 2015. i have therefore decided to abstain on this vote on the latter point, even though i do not approve of the budgetary policies of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget aims to carry over to 2015 the surplus of eur 1.435 billion from the 2014 financial year. this consists of additional revenue of eur 1,183 billion, under-implementation of expenditure of eur 142 million and a currency exchange difference of eur 110 million. this surplus will reduce the member states' contribution to the 2015 budget of the european union. we believe that the carry-over of the surplus from the 2014 financial year to the 2015 budget is entirely logical in view of the budgetary efforts required of the member states. we regret, however, that the council is mobilizing additional resources instead of using existing funds for aid to countries in need. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this draft amending budget which aims to transfer to the 2015 budget the surplus of eur 1 435 million for the financial year 2014. it is true that, a priori, the draft amending budget as presented here would make it possible to reduce the member states' contribution to the union budget for the financial year 2015, which i welcome. however, there is a real problem with the persistent lack of payment appropriations, which, as the report points out, will remain a major problem in the implementation of the 2015 budget. moreover, the surplus as shown in this draft amending budget no 3/2015 shows that these two draft amending budgets for the year 2014, covering a total of seven eusf interventions, could have easily been financed under the 2014 budget. another example of the mismanagement of which the union is guilty.
in writing. ‒ this amending budgetary report relates to the budget surplus for the year 2014, pursuant to article 18 of the financial regulation. in total, €1.435 billion will be shown as revenue in the 2015 budget, thus reducing national contributions to the common budget accordingly. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. at the end of the 2014 financial year, the eu budget was in surplus of eur 1.435 billion. the latter should be budgeted for the financial year 2015 so that the funds can be reallocated to operating expenditure or new investment projects. we have voted to approve such an operation.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this agreement is to budgetise the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2014 budgetary year, as provided for in the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union. this surplus of eur 1 434 557 707,74 will be entered in the revenue for the 2015 budget and will reduce the member states' contributions proportionately.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because the surplus is not used to reduce the contribution of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to record a surplus of eur 1 435 million in the previous year for the financial year 2015. this postponement could reduce the member states' contribution to the eu budget for the financial year 2015. i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on the budgeting of the surplus for the financial year 2014. the report budgeted a surplus of eur 1.435 billion, which will be included in the 2015 budget and will reduce member states' contributions to the union budget accordingly. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on draft amending budget no 3/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015. the resolution budgeted the 2014 budget surplus of €1.435 billion and reduced the member states' national contributions to the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ the commission adopted draft amending budget 3/2015 on 15 april. it covers the budgeting of the surplus of the previous year as provided for in article 18 of the financial regulation of the general budget of the european union. the implementation of the 2014 budget left a surplus of eur 1.435 billion, which should therefore be entered as revenue in the 2015 budget. this surplus was mainly due to late payment interest and fines (eur 634 million) and positive own resources execution (eur 479 million). the adoption of this amending budget would reduce the member states' contribution to the european union budget for the financial year 2015. i therefore decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ as every year, parliament is being asked to postpone large budget surpluses (1.4 billion in 2014) while the european union continues to accumulate mountains of unpaid debts under its various programmes. these surpluses are the result of the savage austerity imposed by the council over the year in the management of both revenue and unforeseen expenditure. the report deplores the council's attitude, but recommends that it should nevertheless vote in favour. all conditions are thus created for this short-sighted management to continue. this creeping austerity is in addition to the cuts already made in the initial budgets. it is even more unacceptable because it is carried out in a savage way behind the backs of the budgets voted by parliament. under the guise of carrying over surpluses, this is a validation of the deliberate tendency not to spend what is planned. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget takes note of the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2014 financial year, in this case eur 1,43 billion, which is therefore entered as revenue in the 2015 budget. this budgetisation of the surplus will reduce the overall contribution of the member states to the financing of the union budget.
in writing. ‒ the commission adopted draft amending budget 3/2015 on 15 april. it covers the budgeting of the surplus of the previous year as provided for in article 18 of the financial regulation of the general budget of the european union. the implementation of the 2014 budget left a surplus of eur 1.435 billion, which should therefore be entered as revenue in the 2015 budget. this surplus was mainly due to late payment interest and fines (eur 634 million) and positive own resources execution (eur 479 million). the adoption of this amending budget would reduce the member states' contribution to the union budget for the financial year 2015. i therefore decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft amending budget for 2015. it allows the budget surplus of eur 1,4 billion for 2014 to be added to the revenue of the 2015 budget and reduces member states' national contributions to the union budget by the same amount.
in writing. ‒ the commission adopted draft amending budget 3/2015 on 15 april. it covers the budgeting of the previous year's surplus, as provided for in article 18 of the financial regulation of the general budget of the union. the implementation of the 2014 budget left a surplus of eur 1.435 billion, which naturally needs to be entered as revenue in the 2015 budget. this surplus was mainly due to late payment interest and fines (€634 million) and positive own resources execution (€479 million). the adoption of this amending budget would reduce the member states' contribution to the union budget for the financial year 2015. i preferred to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text on the budget surplus for the financial year 2014. this surplus amounts to eur 1.435 billion and contributes to a corresponding reduction in the national contributions of the member states.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this necessary debate in view of the floods which have affected this region of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report accompanies the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy, three eu member states which experienced significant flooding in 2014. the mobilisation of this fund should be based on point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 and i have no reason to object to this.
in writing. in april, draft amending budget no 4 was adopted by the commission. this is the budgetary counterpart to the eu solidarity fund (eusf) assistance, totalling €66.5 million. it proposed that the eu solidarity fund be mobilised following the severe weather and flooding in romania, italy and bulgaria. this fund, which is a special instrument, thus makes it possible to support territories in difficulty following natural disasters, but i cannot help but note that a significant amount (eur 403.9 million) of the fund remained unused in 2014. so i decided to abstain on that point.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this draft amending budget which takes account of the mobilisation of the european union's european solidarity fund (eusf) in favour of romania, bulgaria and italy following the floods in those countries. this draft amending budget no 4/2015 covers the eusf intervention for an amount of eur 66 505 850 in commitment and payment appropriations following two floods in the spring and summer of 2014 in romania amounting to eur 8 495 950 in aid, floods in july and august 2014 in bulgaria amounting to eur 1 983 600 in aid and floods in october and november 2014 in italy amounting to eur 56 026 300 in aid. while i welcome this solidarity towards other european nations, i deplore the fact that the rapporteur justifies a new contribution from the member states by the fact that the adoption of draft amending budget no 3/2015 will reduce the share of the gni contribution from the member states to the union budget by eur 1 435 million.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this amending budget report is to authorise the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to the amount of eur 66 505 850 for romania, bulgaria and italy, as provided for in the mureşan report, in order to respond to the floods that occurred in these countries in spring and summer 2014 in romania, july and august 2014 in bulgaria and october/november 2014 in italy. i also voted in favour of the report by mr mureşan.
in writing. during 2014, italy, bulgaria and romania were affected by devastating floods. as a result, more than €66.5 million will be allocated to them, out of the €500 million available annually to the european union solidarity fund. the reconstruction work in italy is colossal; the country will therefore receive the bulk of the aid, namely eur 56 million.
in writing. ‒ following the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy, the commission received requests for financial assistance from these states under the european union solidarity fund. these countries will receive eur 66 505 850 in aid. the funds will help the affected areas to rebuild their infrastructure more quickly. the fund also contributes to the rationalisation of union expenditure by reallocating funds originally earmarked for rural development programmes which have not been used.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because it is in fact a counterpart in the european budgetary procedure.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this report on the european mobilisation in connection with the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. solidarity must be one of the keywords between european countries and should logically support the action of this european union, whose current functioning only fuels tensions between peoples. romania, bulgaria and italy have been hit by very severe floods, with 11 people killed in italy. the economies of these three countries, especially in the agricultural areas, have been hit hard. it was therefore obvious to me to vote for this report and thus express my sympathy, support and solidarity with these three countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. the fund will make it possible to release €66.5 million following the severe floods in these three countries, in order to help repair the damage caused. to this end, an amending budget was necessary. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on draft amending budget no 4/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 accompanying the proposal for assistance from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to romania, bulgaria and italy. the resolution will mobilise €66 million in commitments and payments to deal with the floods in these regions.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4 was adopted by the commission on 15 april 2015. this is the budgetary counterpart to the eusf's assistance, totalling €66.5 million. it proposed that the european union solidarity fund be mobilised following the severe weather and flooding in romania, italy and bulgaria. as this solidarity fund is a special instrument within the meaning of the multiannual financial framework (mff), the corresponding appropriations should be budgeted outside the mff ceilings. in addition, a substantial amount (eur 403,9 million) of the fund remained unused in 2014. i therefore decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the systematic extensions affecting the eu solidarity fund show that it is insufficiently funded from the outset even as natural disasters continue to increase. the fund is requested here to provide financial assistance to romania, bulgaria and italy which experienced significant floods in 2014. i am voting for this urgently needed aid to these three countries to enable them to rebuild their infrastructure. i regret, however, that europe is not taking a stronger stand against the danger to the human ecosystem posed by our production methods. we should be treating the causes rather than curing the symptoms. the increase in flooding is a direct result of productivist and chemical agriculture, which, in the words of agronomists claude and lydia bourguignon, is "leaving the dead soil to the sea". rather than liberalizing agriculture further along this path, the european union should be engaged in ecological planning vital to the future of mankind.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget covers the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 66 million in commitment and payment appropriations following the floods in romania on two occasions, as well as in bulgaria and italy. the commission proposes to involve the eusf in the four requests and to amend the 2015 budget by strengthening article 13 06 01 (solidarity fund of the union member states) accordingly. the french nf delegation abstained.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4 was adopted by the commission on 15 april 2015. this is the budgetary counterpart to the eusf's assistance, totalling €66.5 million. it proposed that the european union solidarity fund be mobilised following the severe weather and flooding in romania, italy and bulgaria. as this solidarity fund is a special instrument within the meaning of the multiannual financial framework (mff), the corresponding appropriations should be budgeted outside the mff ceilings. in addition, a substantial amount (eur 403,9 million) of the fund remained unused in 2014. i therefore decided to abstain from voting.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which provides for the mobilisation of the eusf for romania, bulgaria and italy, following the particularly devastating floods in the spring and summer of 2014. an additional 66.5 million will be allocated to these member states to cover part of the necessary expenditure following the extensive damage that has been caused.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget no 4 was adopted by the commission on 15 april 2015. this is the budgetary counterpart to the eusf's assistance, totalling €66.5 million. it proposed that the european union solidarity fund be mobilised following the severe weather and flooding in romania, italy and bulgaria. this solidarity fund is a special instrument within the meaning of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the corresponding appropriations must be budgeted outside the mff ceilings. in addition, a substantial amount (eur 403,9 million) of the fund remained unused in 2014. i have decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ following the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014, i voted in favour of using the solidarity fund for these countries to the tune of eur 66 505 850. i support the use of this fund, which makes it possible to deal with certain emergencies and gives a certain flexibility to the european budget.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ as romania, bulgaria and italy have been affected by floods, it seems important to me to help these countries. solidarity with member states that have suffered a disaster is one of the union's natural roles in a vision of a europe of nations. as the elected representative of the south-east of france, which regularly suffers from severe flooding every year, it is only natural that i should express my sympathy and support for the people of these three countries. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this necessary debate in view of the floods which have affected this region of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report accompanies the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy, three eu member states which experienced significant flooding in 2014. the mobilisation of the solidarity fund is possible only with the agreement of three fifths of the members of the european parliament. i therefore supported the granting of these aids, the total amount of which is precisely eur 66 505 850, of which 56 026 300 for italy alone.
in writing. the purpose of this project is to effectively mobilise the european union solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 66.5 million following the events in romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014. the total cost of direct damage is estimated at €172 million in romania, €79.4 million in bulgaria and €2.2 billion in italy. however, none of the events reached the 'major disaster' threshold (set at eur 3 billion) sufficient to call for compensation of 6% of direct damage and these events were considered as 'regional disasters' entitling to compensation of 2.5% of direct damage suffered. the amounts not spent by the fund in 2014 (approximately eur 409 million) cover the overall requested amount of eur 66.5 million. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this aid in order to support these hard-hit areas and populations.
in writing. ‒ following the floods that affected romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014, the european union decided to mobilise the solidarity fund to help these countries with €66.5 million. the cost of the 2014 spring floods in romania was estimated at eur 170 million, or 0,13% of gni. even if this amount is below the threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund, which has been set at 0,6% of gdp in relative terms or at eur 3 billion in absolute terms, the relative provision for neighbouring countries referred to in article 2 allows the mobilisation of these funds to be triggered. the floods of summer 2014 cost romania, bulgaria and italy respectively €172 million, €80 million and €2.24 billion. these amounts are below the required thresholds. nevertheless, the applications were accepted as the damage caused by these floods exceeds 1.5% of the gdp of the regions concerned. the commission has decided to compensate these regions for 2.5% of the cost of these natural disasters, which does not seem to be excessive. that is why i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund was set up to enable the union to provide effective assistance to a member state or an acceding country in the event of a major natural disaster. bulgaria, romania and italy were affected by major floods during 2014. there was an urgent need to provide appropriate support to the affected areas. solidarity is one of the pillars on which the european union is built. the objective of this report is to provide a financial contribution of eur 66 505 850 to be shared between the three states. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy, which have been affected by recent floods. the commission notes that the romanian authorities have not provided any evidence that the romanian authorities have taken the necessary measures to ensure that the aid is granted in full. that the country also experienced flooding during the summer of 2014; whereas bulgaria was hit by floods in the same summer, with direct damage estimated by the bulgarian authorities at eur 79,3 million; finally, italy itself experienced floods in autumn 2014 which caused direct damage estimated by the italian authorities at eur 2 241 million. in view of this distress, it seems to me normal that solidarity should be shown between the peoples of europe.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to help italy, romania and bulgaria affected by natural disasters in 2014. the request for mobilisation amounts to eur 66 505 850 to compensate for the estimated direct damage. i believe that these requests for aid fulfil the criteria for mobilising the fund and that european solidarity is at stake. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european union has a solidarity fund which provides specific assistance to certain member states in times of need. in this case, floods hit italy, romania and bulgaria during 2014. more than €66 million will therefore be released to these three countries to compensate for the emergency measures they have taken to rebuild.
in writing. ‒ following the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy, the commission received requests for financial assistance from these states under the european union solidarity fund. these countries will receive eur 66 505 850 in aid. the funds will help the affected areas to rebuild their infrastructure more quickly. the fund also helps to rationalise union expenditure by reallocating funds originally earmarked for rural development programmes which have not been used.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses solidarity with european countries in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the european union solidarity fund to assist romania, bulgaria and italy. the use of these funds will allow for a rapid and efficient response to flood emergencies in these regions.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this project is to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 66.5 million (in commitment and payment appropriations) following the severe weather and flooding in romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014. these events caused significant damage to public infrastructure, as well as to private and business property and to the agricultural sector. the total cost of direct damage is estimated at €172 million in romania, €79.4 million in bulgaria and €2.2 billion in italy. however, none of the events reached the threshold of major disaster (set at €3 billion) sufficient to call for a compensation of 6% of direct damage. the aid granted is gradual and increases when the damage is high. the four events were considered as 'regional disasters' as defined in article 2 (3) of the regulation, giving entitlement to compensation of 2,5% of the direct damage suffered. the amounts not spent by the fund in 2014 cover the overall requested amount of eur 66.5 million. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation which will make it possible to allocate a total of 66.2 million to romania, bulgaria and italy, which have been affected by severe floods. this will enable them to provide aid to the affected populations and to safeguard their infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the systematic extensions affecting the eu solidarity fund show that it is insufficiently funded from the outset even as natural disasters continue to increase. the fund is requested here to provide financial assistance to romania, bulgaria and italy, which experienced significant floods in 2014. i am voting for this urgently needed aid to these three countries to enable them to rebuild their infrastructure. i regret, however, that europe is not taking a stronger stand against the danger to the human ecosystem posed by our production methods. we should be treating the causes rather than curing the symptoms. the increase in flooding is a direct result of productivist and chemical agriculture, which, in the words of agronomists claude and lydia bourguignon, is "leaving the dead soil to the sea". rather than liberalizing agriculture further along this path, the european union should be engaged in ecological planning vital to the future of mankind.
in writing. ‒ as romania, bulgaria and italy are suffering from floods, it seems important to me to help these countries. in my view, one of the roles of the european union is precisely to help other states when they suffer a natural disaster such as floods. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this project is to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 66.5 million (in commitment and payment appropriations) following the severe weather and flooding in romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014. these events caused significant damage to public infrastructure, as well as to private and business property and to the agricultural sector. the total cost of direct damage is estimated at €172 million in romania, €79.4 million in bulgaria and €2.2 billion in italy. however, none of the events reached the threshold of major disaster (set at €3 billion) sufficient to call for compensation of 6% of direct damage. the aid granted is gradual and increases when the damage is high. the four events were considered as 'regional disasters' as defined in article 2 (3) of the regulation, giving entitlement to compensation of 2,5% of the direct damage suffered. the amounts not spent by the fund in 2014 cover the overall amount of eur 66.5 million requested. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which will allow the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to the tune of over eur 66 million to help romania, bulgaria and italy, where floods occurred in 2014. the aim is to enter the eur 8,4 million allocated to romania, the eur 1,9 million allocated to bulgaria and the eur 56 million allocated to italy in the draft amending budget for 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mureşan report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. during 2014, these three countries suffered from severe flooding, including romania. these heavy rains and landslides have caused considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, housing and the agricultural sector. the mobilisation of this fund is another example of european solidarity between the member states suffering the consequences of unprecedented rainfall and climate change. the emergency was there, the european union came to the aid of the people and the regions affected.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this project is to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 66.5 million (in commitment and payment appropriations) following the severe weather and flooding in romania, bulgaria and italy in 2014. these events caused extensive damage to public infrastructure, private and business buildings, and agricultural structures. the total cost of direct damage is estimated at €172 million in romania, €79.4 million in bulgaria and €2.2 billion in italy. however, none of these events exceeded the threshold for a major disaster (set at eur 3 billion), which is sufficient to claim compensation of 6% of direct damage. the aid granted is gradual and increases when the damage is high. the four events were considered as 'regional disasters' within the meaning of article 2 (3) of the regulation, giving entitlement to compensation of 2,5% of the direct damage suffered. the amounts not spent by the fund in 2014 cover the overall requested amount of eur 66.5 million. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this aid.
in writing. ‒ following the floods in romania (spring and summer 2014), bulgaria (summer 2014) and italy (autumn 2014), the european commission proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. i voted in favour of using this fund. of this total, 1.98 million will be used for bulgaria, 56 million for italy and 8.5 million for romania.
explanations of vote by oral procedure
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a multimodal ticketing system in europe would be a further step in the federalisation of the union. the protection of personal data remains very vague and no real mechanism is foreseen. the risk of a monopoly situation is high, which would automatically lead to higher costs for users. as a defender of the sovereignty of states and of the europe of nations, i am firmly opposed to any attempt to federalise the union. as consumer protection is also one of my priorities, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because the ultimate aim of this decision is to offer travellers a multimodal and crossborder solution, without interruption, door to door, thus promoting access to quality public transport for all.
in writing. ‒ clearly, this project to create an integrated multimodal ticketing system has many advantages, especially for those of our fellow citizens who are regularly travelling across our old continent. the proposal is all the more attractive because it is based on galileo, the european geolocation system, which is a competitor to the us gps. however, the undeniable advantages of this project are counterbalanced by major disadvantages: since mobility is facilitated, there is a risk that this will result in a reduction in controls. at a time when the union is experiencing unprecedented immigration and a high risk of terrorist attacks, facilitating mobility and reducing controls does not seem to me to be a good solution; the price of tickets may increase significantly to pay for the system (except in the case of outsourcing); the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. the question of the protection of personal data is too vague. that is why my colleagues and i have finally voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this project to create an integrated multimodal ticketing system is a key tool for the realisation of the single european transport area and the single european market promoted by the union. the integrated ticket would thus make it possible to travel with a single ticket and to choose the optimal solution useful to the user. the report sets out a number of objectives, ranging from equipping all modes of transport with intelligent transmission systems by 2023 to establishing a single national information system to link regional and local timetables, in order to promote greater use of public transport and to promote the environment. even if there are positive points in it to promote mobility and reduce constraints for users such as the use of the galileo system, we cannot support this report because our differences are too great. the facilitation of mobility may entail risks because of the reduction of controls, but it is also possible to foresee an increase in the prices for implementing this system. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european single market provides for the free movement of goods and people in all the member states of the union. as such, transport policies in europe are fundamental issues. there is a need to increase the sustainability, cost-effectiveness and energy efficiency of our transport. this report proposes the establishment of an integrated multimodal ticketing system in europe. this system will provide access throughout the union to comprehensive information on transport options throughout the union. it will greatly facilitate access to transport for european travellers. it will also help to lay the foundations for a single european transport area. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report, which is part of the logic of a single european transport area, and therefore of the single market and of the strengthening of integration. the objectives of a multimodal ticketing system are to standardize transport services with an increase in the importance of cross-border services. while some of the potential benefits of such a system seem interesting - such as facilitating mobility within the european territory or allowing users to choose the optimal solution for their journey - there are many points to be criticized in this project. in addition to the fact that the single market is based on a globalist ideology to the detriment of citizens, the facilitation of mobility risks leading to a reduction in controls, even though the union is currently experiencing uncontrolled immigration which poses serious problems in terms of security and social welfare. the introduction of such a system could also lead to a cost to the price of tickets that would be a heavy burden on citizens. finally, on the issue of the protection of personal data, the report remains very vague and this lack of transparency poses a risk to the respect for citizens' privacy.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes the creation of an integrated multimodal ticketing system within the european union. such a system aims to facilitate and encourage the multimodal travel of european citizens and will address the issues of sustainability, economic viability, energy efficiency and environmental friendliness in transport. conscious of the need to offer, in the long term and despite the technical and material difficulties of such a project, the possibility of continuous travel to individuals throughout the union through multimodal, crossborder and innovative solutions, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission has made an ambitious proposal to eventually create an integrated ticketing system for travel throughout the union and across several modes of transport. european citizens would have a single ticket and an electronic reservation system. this requires that the offers of private and public operators in the 28 member states are accessible to all on an online platform. such a prospect would not only make traffic more fluid, but would also be a major step forward for the free movement of persons. we hereby call on the commission to make efforts in this direction and set a date for 2020 to assess progress.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of a single ticketing system for transport in europe is a practical and useful step forward for european citizens who travel across several eu member states for both business and personal reasons. the european parliament wants european operators to develop a single integrated ticket for passengers using several modes of transport in different countries. this implies the sharing of timetable information between the different operators in due course. we will be closely monitoring progress towards the practical implementation of this single ticket. if the private sector's progress is not sufficient by 2020, then the commission will have to come forward with a legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the creation of an integrated multimodal ticketing system in europe. this text is designed to facilitate mobility within the european area. this would make it easier for travellers to cross borders without difficulty. it seems that, apart from the risk of fewer checks, the present situation does not lend itself to facilitating travel. indeed, what about the migration flows and the already very weak monitoring of them at the border crossing? in addition, the increased terrorist threats in recent weeks have forced us to be cautious rather than more open. public decision-makers are meant to protect citizens by controlling their territory and ensuring control of those who enter it. the union is preventing us from doing so and would like to subject our states to more flows. so this project is neither serious nor responsible.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not take sufficient account of the protection of personal data, creates a monopoly situation and leads to an increase in costs.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on transport and tourism from 2004 to 2014, i voted enthusiastically for this resolution which calls for the implementation of a single ticket for transport in the european union: a very concrete and very practical step forward which would make life easier for travellers in europe. the ease, convenience and availability of travel information provided by such integrated multimodal ticketing systems will attract european travellers to public transport. in addition, such a system would put an end to websites and mobile applications that prevent the purchase of tickets for domestic and crossborder journeys, which i welcome, being from a crossborder constituency par excellence. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the treaty of rome.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the report on the multimodal ticketing system. this text is part of a desire for uniformity, no doubt with two aims in mind: the creation and deepening of a common market and the uniformity necessary for the signing of a transatlantic free trade agreement. this creates a great risk of monopoly, which is contrary to the interests of european and french consumers. the report advocates a federalist vision of europe, in defiance of the sovereignty of the member states, and is in complete opposition to the principles i advocate. uniformisation in any field is neither desirable nor encouraged, because it is always against sovereign states and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague dieter-lebrecht koch on the creation of an integrated multimodal ticketing system in europe. the report advocates the creation of a single european ticketing platform. this ticketing system will allow you to obtain a single ticket for a journey with several different modes of transport (airplane, train, bus, etc.). this platform would allow for greater price transparency and better environmental consideration during journeys. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the creation of an integrated multimodal ticketing system in europe. such a system, combining different means of transport on a single ticket, can only strengthen the european single market and contribute to the establishment of a single european transport area.
in writing. ‒ this project to create an integrated multimodal ticketing system is a key tool for the realisation of the single european transport area and the single european market promoted by the union. the possible benefits are: facilitating mobility within the european territory; providing travellers with the best choice. there are also many rather unfavourable aspects to this type of system: as mobility is facilitated, there is a risk that this will result in fewer checks. while the union is experiencing a wave of immigration and a high risk of terrorist attacks, facilitating mobility and reducing controls does not seem to be a good solution; risk of ticket price increases to pay for the system (unless costs are outsourced); the report also stresses the need to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the treaty. the question of the protection of personal data is too vague. i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against it. the aim is to create an integrated multimodal ticketing system to facilitate the creation of a single european transport area and the european single market promoted by the european union. several objectives are planned (establishing a single system of information on timetables, equipping transport with intelligent transmission systems, developing public transport and promoting its use, involving local authorities, etc.). the integrated ticket would also make it possible to travel with a single ticket and, through the galileo gps technology, to defend european technological progress. but facilitating mobility can undermine control, which is absolutely unthinkable in the current context (terrorist risk, but also immigration problems). the issue of data protection and the increase in costs also have to be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text establishing a multimodal european ticketing system. the text makes it possible to book a ticket for a journey from one country to another from a single platform combining several modes of transport through a single information system. the disadvantage of this system is that it makes the free movement of people much easier and therefore reduces the controls which are so important in these times of high immigration. there is also a risk of an increase in the price of tickets for the depreciation of the system.
in writing. ‒ an integrated multimodal ticketing system is defined as the combination of different modes of transport on a single ticket, at a single ticket office, accessible to all. the stated objectives of increasing the mobility of people with reduced mobility or increasing the share of public transport used are commendable. particular attention is paid to the protection of personal data, stating that the purchase of an electronic ticket should be possible preferably without the need to register in the system . so far, it's been good. but the ultimate goal is to contribute to the creation of a single european transport area and a single european market. in the same vein, the text advocates the idea that the adoption of the fourth railway package would allow for better integration of the different modes of transport. this is unacceptable and i condemn it. under these conditions i abstain.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of a multimodal ticketing system in europe is yet another step by the commission towards the federalisation of the european union. this process is further standardizing the transport sector, which is the federalist vanguard of the union. in addition, the issue of personal data protection remains too vague and no real mechanism is foreseen. there is also a very high risk of a monopoly situation being established, leading in fact to higher costs for users. i am very much attached to the sovereignty of states and to the europe of nations and the defence of consumers, and i voted against.
in writing. this integrated multimodal ticketing system advocated by the european union is essential to the achievement of the single european transport area and the single european market promoted by the union. the underlying aim is to enable rail passengers to use only one ticket and to choose the most optimal solution for intra-community travel. to this end, the report advocates equipping all modes of transport with intelligent transmission systems by 2023 and establishing a single national information system to connect regional and local timetables, in order to promote greater use of public transport and promote the environment. although there are some positive aspects in promoting mobility or reducing constraints for users by integrating the galileo system, for example, this report does carry risks for the member states as it will make checks more stringent because of increased mobility. but above all, all these arrangements are likely to raise the cost of tickets. for these reasons, i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the creation of an integrated multimodal ticketing system in europe. the text calls on the commission to make legislative proposals to facilitate travel across europe, both in terms of information and scheduling and in booking tickets. it proposes, in particular, the creation of a single ticket for all the transport modes chosen. the aim is to develop tourism in europe through innovations in the digital and service provider sectors and by adapting legislation.
in writing. the aim of this report is to implement european-wide multimodal travel information, travel planning and ticketing services to facilitate the provision of comprehensive information on air, rail, sea and road transport. facilitating the mobility and movement of eu citizens and visitors from third countries is a practical way of implementing the freedoms of movement. it is also about promoting the transition to public transport, which is necessary to reduce our consumption and carbon emissions in europe. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ this integrated multimodal ticketing system advocated by the european union is a prerequisite for the realisation of the single european transport area and the single european market promoted by the european union. the aim is to enable rail passengers to use only one ticket and to choose the best solution for intra-community travel. to do this, the report advocates equipping all modes of transport with intelligent transmission systems by 2023, including the establishment of a single national information system to connect regional and local times. the aim is to promote greater use of public transport and to promote the environment. although there are some positive aspects (reduction of user burdens through the integration of the galileo system, for example), this text does place member states at risk, since it will facilitate mobility and thus make it even more difficult to control entry and exit from the national territory. in addition, these arrangements may increase the cost of tickets. for these reasons, i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the increasing diversification of transport modes and offers in europe and within the european union, and in view of the increasing mobility of citizens, the european parliament adopted an own-initiative report on the creation of an integrated multimodal ticketing system in europe. i voted in favour of this text and i believe that the commission should propose reforms to simplify transport in europe and to make it easier for passengers to travel. this is done by creating a single banknote.
in writing. ‒ deeper european integration means more efficient and fluid transport. although these are only recommendations to the commission, i welcome the adoption of this report on the creation of an integrated multimodal ticketing system in europe. the decongestion of the transport network and thus the reduction of carbon emissions will be among the main improvements. in addition, such measures will allow the user to select the route of his choice on the basis of neutral, reliable data obtained in real time and thus help him to optimise his journeys. the european parliament calls on the commission not only to establish a coherent regulatory framework to support innovation and entrepreneurship in this area, but also to set up appropriate infrastructures.
in writing. ‒ the objectives of this report are multiple: to increase the importance of crossborder services, to establish by 2020 a single national information system to connect regional and local timetables, to equip all modes of transport with intelligent transmission systems by 2023, to integrate local and regional authorities in order to involve them in the provision of traffic information within the union. the advantages are as follows: this type of system can only facilitate mobility within the european territory, this proposal is based on the gps galileo system which is a european geolocation system. there are also many rather unfavourable aspects to this type of system: mobility being facilitated, this will result in a reduction in controls, while the union is experiencing a wave of immigration and a high risk of terrorist attacks, a risk of an increase in the price of tickets to pay for the implementation of the system (unless costs are outsourced); the report also stresses the need to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the treaty. the question of the protection of personal data is too vague. i therefore vote against.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ since the european situation has not allowed the commission to conduct itself properly, its mandate and duration should be extended in order to achieve its objectives.
in writing. ‒ on thursday 12 february it was decided to set up a special commission on tax returns and other measures similar in nature or effect, with 45 members and a term of six months. the purpose of this special committee is to examine the practices relating to tax returns as from 1 january 1991, but also the way in which the european commission treats state aid in the countries of the union and their level of transparency as regards tax returns. it will also seek to identify the negative impact of aggressive tax planning on public finances and will present its recommendations for the future.' this vote calls for the extension of this committee until 30 november 2015. i've decided to vote yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for an extension of the mandate of the special committee on tax returns and other similar measures. the commission was set up in january to update the problems related to abusive tax write-off practices within the union, in particular following the revelations that led to the luxleaks scandal. in the last six months, the commission has held numerous hearings, including with the heads of the companies concerned by the disputes, and has carried out investigations in countries known to be favourable to such practices, such as switzerland and luxembourg. this work of transparency is necessary and it seems natural to give the committee six months more to prepare its report and to draw the necessary conclusions.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this vote is to extend the mandate of the special committee on tax remissions and other measures similar in nature or effect, which was originally set up for six months. i had supported the setting up of such a committee whose purpose is to bring to light the tax practices of the member states of the european union, to make concrete proposals to put an end to abuses in this area, in particular on the homogenisation of corporate taxation in europe. i believe that the work of this committee, chaired by my colleague alain lamassoure, president of the french delegation to the european people's party, should be extended, since the commission has already done important work and has dealt with a central political issue, since the absence of tax harmonization at european level can create a situation where tax decisions in one member state lead to tax losses or a reduction in tax or tax in another member state. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ while the european commission has launched several investigations into tax rulings since the end of 2014, meps wanted to join this dynamic. a special parliamentary committee was set up on 12 february 2015. it is mandated to examine the compatibility of tax rulings and other similar measures with union law in the field of state aid and taxation. tax rulings are anticipatory tax rulings concerning a company, thus guaranteeing it legal certainty in relation to taxation. this practice can foster tax competition between states which is detrimental to public accounts. the work of the committee was originally scheduled to last six months; the commission requested the applicant to provide the information requested in the request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the term of office of the special committee on taxation. the aim of this committee, chaired by alain lamassoure, is to study the tax records of the various member states and thus to avoid as far as possible the misuse of tax optimisation and tax evasion by multinationals. the european parliament has voted in favour of extending the term of office of this committee, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the luxleaks case on tax rulings pending in luxembourg was revealed in november 2014. a special committee was set up by parliament in february 2015 to look into the matter. the commission's mandate is to examine tax recording practices as from 1 january 1991, but also the way in which the european commission deals with state aid in the countries of the union and their level of transparency. it also seeks to determine the negative impact of aggressive tax planning on public finances. under rule 197, the special committees are appointed for a term of 12 months, renewable by parliament. as its work is not yet completed, i vote in favour of continuing the mandate of this committee.
in writing. ‒ the taxe special committee conducted a large number of hearings and visited several countries in the first six months of its existence as part of its mission on tax returns in europe. the mass of information to be gathered and the time needed to organise these debates make it necessary to extend the mandate of the special committee in order to allow it to finalise its report by the end of 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the mandate of the special committee on taxation. the commission has also examined the application of the principle of proportionality in the light of the case-law of the court of justice of the european union. it also examines the tax systems applied to companies in the member states and whether fictitious profit transfers within groups of companies could lead to tax or tax reductions. the commission is required to present its conclusions and recommendations in a final report.
in writing. ‒ the luxleaks scandal has not been sufficiently strongly reacted to. any measure that could extend the mandate of the special committee is therefore welcome, because the committee must be able to uncover the mechanisms that have allowed such a system of tax evasion to develop for such a long period. at a time when the union is imposing intolerable austerity on its peoples, it is essential that it reforms itself and does not encourage unfair practices among its own members. that is why i am voting in favour of extending the mandate of the special committee.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ it is a question of budgeting the resources needed for the implementation of the european fund for strategic investment. i oppose the very mechanism of efsi which i consider to be dangerous and counterproductive. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in all consistency, i am voting in favour of the budgetary transcription of the decisions voted at the previous plenary session.
in writing. this draft amending budget is the budgetary counterpart to the adoption of the efsi. it amends the 2015 budget and budgetises the resources necessary for the implementation of the efsi. the european fund for strategic investments is the backbone of the juncker plan for investment in europe. with a €16 billion guarantee financed from the eu budget and a €5 billion contribution from the eib, it hopes to mobilise around three times as many resources through the issuance of bond issues used to attract other public or private investors. it is clear that this fund is just another trick. the leverage effect is overestimated and therefore risks being a failure like the 2012 growth and jobs pact. in addition, it may create a bargain for companies that will use the fund when they had already planned to invest before. it would make more sense to introduce a genuine small business act for smes, as is the case in the united states, and to relaunch the industrialization of the union to get out of this spiral of unemployment and austerity. as i was already opposed to the efsi itself, i voted against this text, which is only its budgetary counterpart.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this draft amending budget which aims to budget the resources needed to implement the european fund for strategic investment. such a fund is in fact only an admission of the commission's inability to finance investment and is, moreover, a form of blackmail on the part of the member states: they are promised that their contribution to the fies will be deducted from the calculation of their deficit. the result is that the juncker plan will be favoured over the european structural funds and state/region project contracts. in other words, we risk diverting funding from national public policies to the fies, all for fear of being finger-tapped by brussels in its consideration of national budgets. this new move by the commission is a clear indication of its inability to finance itself and, therefore, of its willingness to try to plunder the member states again.
in writing. ‒ this amending budgetary report proposes to amend the budget for 2015 to take account of the agreement on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the financial instruments are used effectively and that the budgetary impact of the proposed measures is taken into account. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, and the purchase of furniture. i believe that it is essential that the juncker plan should be operational as soon as possible in order to finance strategic growth projects and to support the investment and development of european smes and mid-caps, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. at the plenary session on 24 june, we voted to create the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). we hope that it will raise €315 billion for investment projects in the european union over the period 2015-2017. the first step in this direction has been validated: €1,360 million in commitment appropriations and €10 million in payment appropriations will be released to feed the efsi guarantee fund for the financial year 2015.
in writing. ‒ the union budget must, in continuity with previous budgets, give priority to investment and in particular the juncker plan, without cutting certain programmes such as erasmus or horizon 2020. this is a necessary balance between investment and budgetary rigor. the implementation of the investment plan for europe (efsi) is one of the challenges of this mandate. we will be judged on its success.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because european policy in this area undermines any national strategic investment strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on the draft amending budget for the european fund for strategic investments. this amending budget creates new budget lines by amending the budget nomenclature, thus providing the resources needed to supply the efsi guarantee fund, more commonly known as the 'juncker plan'. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on draft amending budget no 1/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 accompanying the proposal for a regulation on the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). this amending budget modifies the budget nomenclature by creating new budget lines and provides the resources necessary for the supply of the efsi so that it can be launched as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget is the budgetary counterpart to the adoption of the efsi. it thus amends the 2015 budget and provides for the resources necessary for the implementation of the efsi. the european fund for strategic investments is the backbone of the juncker plan for investment in europe. from a €16 billion guarantee financed from the union budget and a €5 billion contribution from the eib, it hopes to mobilise around 3 times more resources through the issuance of bonded loans used to attract other public or private investors and to finance projects of around 4 times the initial risk-taking capacity (i.e. around €315 billion). the fund is purely a communication, since at worst it will be a failure (like the 2012 pact for growth and jobs) and at best it will create bargain effects: that is, companies that have already planned to invest even without this plan will do so with the guarantee of the efsi. having voted against the efsi at the june part-session in brussels, it is only logical that we should oppose this text, which is only its budgetary counterpart. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this text reveals the futility of the famous recovery plan presented in 2014 by the new president of the commission, jean-claude juncker. the key measure of this plan was the creation of a european fund for strategic investments. that's a very good idea. the question now is how to finance this fund. everyone was wondering what juncker was going to do. the commission has already proposed a reduction of the amount of the existing investment programmes in the eu budget (horizon 2020, the european environment agency, iter) by 1.2 billion. the new juncker fund is therefore a media hoax. it is even likely that even fewer investments will be financed at the end of the programme than with the programmes decided before juncker! the juncker plan is thus primarily a plan to shut down certain activities. the report therefore "deplores" the amputation of these programmes "in view of the importance of these programmes for employment and growth in europe". but, without any consistency, he still supports this redeployment. i vote against this charade.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget is the budgetary counterpart to the adoption of the efsi. it thus amends the 2015 budget and provides for the resources necessary for the implementation of the efsi. the european fund for strategic investments is the backbone of the juncker plan for investment in europe. from a €16 billion guarantee financed from the union budget and a €5 billion contribution from the eib, it hopes to mobilise around 3 times more resources through the issuance of bonded loans used to attract other public or private investors and to finance projects of around 4 times the initial risk-taking capacity (i.e. around €315 billion). the fund is purely a communication, since at worst it will be a failure (like the 2012 pact for growth and jobs) and at best it will create bargain effects: that is, companies that have already planned to invest even without this plan will do so with the guarantee of the efsi. having voted against the efsi at the june part-session in brussels, it is only logical that we should oppose this text, which is only its budgetary counterpart. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the budgetary aspect of the juncker plan (efsi agreement) for 2015. this amending budget changes the budget nomenclature by creating new budget lines and provides the resources needed to supply the juncker plan. the plan is expected to mobilise eur 315 billion for new investment in the real economy. the union is seeking to create leverage through a eur 16 billion guarantee to support public and private investment in transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure (including interconnections of transport and energy networks) and digital infrastructure. the fund aims to revitalise the union's economy without delay by facilitating access to finance and promoting the competitiveness of enterprises.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget is the budgetary counterpart to the adoption of the efsi. it thus amends the 2015 budget and provides for the necessary resources for the implementation of the efsi. the european fund for strategic investments is the backbone of the juncker plan for investment in europe. from a €16 billion guarantee financed from the union budget and a €5 billion contribution from the eib, it hopes to mobilise around three times as much through the issuance of bonded loans used to attract other public or private investors and to finance projects with around four times the initial risk-taking capacity (i.e. around €315 billion). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new fund, in particular through the use of the efsi guarantee, in order to ensure that the fund's contribution to the union's overall budget is limited to the minimum necessary. having voted against the efsi at the june part-session in brussels, it is only logical that i should oppose this text, which is only its budgetary counterpart. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ one of the key elements of the new juncker commission's programme is the creation of a european fund for strategic investments. i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 1/2015 which amends the nomenclature of the european budget by creating new budget lines to provide the fund concerned.
in writing. ‒ the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), known as the juncker plan, is expected to fuel a €315 billion investment stimulus programme. the plan is actually a mirror with a halo: out of the 315 billion announced, only 5 are fresh money, the rest being either guarantees (16 billion) or a very hypothetical "leverage effect" that is to say that one euro of credit could generate ... 15 times the value of the investment! only very limited support will therefore be given to new infrastructure financing programmes which are likely to generate employment. the text put to the vote aims to validate technical adjustments to the community budget for 2015 to allow the establishment of the efsi. the right hand is used to take resources allocated to european programmes and the left hand to put them as a guarantee for the juncker plan. i am not convinced, and i therefore abstained on this amending budget.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the draft amending budget includes an increase in the appropriations for the frontex agency, which is responsible for monitoring the external borders of the union. the total increase is €89 million and a good part of this would be taken from the galileo budget, which, however, should not be neglected. the frontex agency has proved ineffective and incapable of fighting the flood of illegal immigrants on the mediterranean coast. this reinforces the national front's consistent position that the schengen agreements should be suspended and that the responsibility for the surveillance of the union's external borders should be returned to each member state. rather than increasing the budget for frontex, i would like the union to help the member states bordering the mediterranean in their fight against illegal immigration. for these reasons i voted against this draft amending budget.
in writing. ‒ the means to manage migration flows are still paltry, but the commission's proposal on asylum is a step in the right direction, and so are the means we are allocating.
in writing. following the human tragedies in the mediterranean linked to the influx of migrants, the union presents a draft amending budget for 2015 aimed at 'strengthening eu resources for the management of migration and refugee flows'. the budget should first allow for an increase in the appropriations for the frontex agency (eur 26.8 million), to triple the funding for operations triton and poseidon for the remainder of 2015. it will also be useless, since they will only be monitoring missions, without preventing immigration into the union. secondly, the project should make it possible to better distribute the burden of asylum at a cost of €89 million, all to accommodate more migrants and by directly cutting off galileo credits. these european policies are just a vast smoke screen and communication as it becomes vital to control our immigration. it is urgent to restore the sovereignty of nations, to free them from their immigration policy or to apply a policy of firmness as is done in australia. i therefore voted against this.
in writing. ‒ in order to respond to the massive arrival of migrants on europe's coasts, the council proposes, in this draft amending budget, to increase the union's resources by eur 75.7 million, including eur 70 million from the redeployment of appropriations from the galileo programme. these funds will reinforce the budget of frontex and easo and provide europol with additional staff. in summary, the project is intended to alleviate the financial burden which is currently borne only by the countries of southern europe. we are firmly opposed to any transfer of sovereignty, especially when the powers are transferred to bodies such as frontex, whose results in combating smuggling networks are not very good. the schengen area has not fulfilled its objectives. that is why we believe that the reintroduction of border controls at the borders of each state will effectively curb these migratory flows. finally, we regret that this redistribution of appropriations is being made at the expense of galileo. the european union, rather than financially supporting cooperation projects, prefers to waste public money on policies whose inefficiency is no longer to be demonstrated. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the human catastrophes that occurred earlier this year in the mediterranean, resulting in the deaths of several hundred people, illustrate the need for urgent action to prevent such tragedies from happening again. the intensification of migration flows is a major challenge for europe, which must respond to find viable solutions. the draft amending budget aims to increase the resources devoted to the management of migration and refugee flows. it proposes to increase the efficiency and budget of the three agencies directly involved in responding to migratory pressures: frontex, europol and the european asylum support office. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have chosen to reject this report which, under the pretext of dealing with migratory pressures, justifies an increase in legal immigration and a quota distribution among member states. to this end, the draft amending budget intends to increase the appropriations for frontex, whose uselessness and inadequacy have already been proven in the past, by eur 26.8 million: all this, to 'surveil' the union's external borders, without calling into question the real responsible party for this situation, the schengen treaty. the amending budget therefore provides for an increase in funding of eur 89 million, a large part of which will be taken from the galileo budget. we therefore prefer to reduce our research sector in favour of an incompetent structure, to the detriment of the european peoples who will have to bear the burden of mass immigration once again.
in writing. ‒ this amending budgetary report proposes to increase the resources available to the union for immigration and refugee flows, following the various events in the mediterranean in recent weeks. the three agencies responsible for these policies will therefore be strengthened by 75 million in commitment appropriations and 69 million in payment appropriations, by redeploying appropriations from other programmes, such as the galileo programme. in the context of the overall destabilisation of the southern and eastern european neighbourhood and the increase in migration flows towards europe, i believe that it is necessary to give european policies the means to meet their objectives and these challenges, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. according to the united nations high commissioner for refugees, 137,000 refugees and migrants arrived in europe in the first half of 2015, and that's just on the mediterranean coast. the commission's response to the intensity of the migratory pressure has been to the point. it has effectively designed a mechanism for the emergency relocation and resettlement of persons in need of international protection; it proposed an action plan to combat smugglers. the commission also announced that it would strengthen the capacity of its agencies to support italy and greece in the identification and registration of arrivals. the states have agreed on a number of these measures. now is the time to get to the bottom of it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. these are budget lines that have been reallocated, not additional funds. however, the amounts released are still insufficient in view of the likely intensification of the crisis in the mediterranean this summer.
in writing. ‒ in just a few years, the mediterranean has become the world's deadliest crossing for migrants. last year 3,000 people died there, nearly 22,000 since 2000, and the beginning of this year looks even more dangerous, with 2,000 already dead. they are syrians, libyans, eritreans, sudanese, somalis, nigerians, etc., women, men, children, fleeing, risking their lives, their countries torn by war, civil war, political chaos, dictatorship, extreme poverty. and there is little hope that 2015 will be, for them, a year of return to stability and peace. on the contrary, frontex estimates that 500,000 to 1 million migrants or asylum seekers will attempt to cross the mediterranean this year. that is why we have granted an increase of eur 69.6 million to three agencies managing migration flows to the union and various funds dealing with migration measures this year. in the face of these tragedies, in the face of their inexorable increase, the european union and the member states must, however, decide to act together, to have a coherent strategy for the long term.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this debate because it amputates the galileo project and because, overall, the european union's migration policy is a disaster
in writing. ‒ in may 2015, the commission published its 'european agenda on migration', a much-awaited policy document since the beginning of the new commission's mandate and especially in view of the tragic events in the mediterranean sea in recent months. with this agenda, the commission is finally taking stock of the scale and scope of the migration phenomenon in europe, at a time when we have been calling for years for european management and a genuine european migration policy. i welcomed the commission's intention to increase the union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows, to strengthen frontex's capacity and to triple the budget for european rescue operations, and the commission's immediate budgetary proposal translating these announcements into clear and concrete budgetary commitments. i therefore welcome today the swift agreement reached between parliament and the council to increase the european budget for 2015 by eur 75 722 000 (in commitment appropriations) in this respect, which is proof that the european union is capable of dealing with emergency situations and taking action.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of an amendment to the 2015 budget. it is essential that additional funding be allocated as quickly as possible to deal with the tragedies in the mediterranean and the increase in migration flows. the budget allocated of eur 75 million is not up to the challenge, but it was crucial that parliament approve this decision quickly to respond to the humanitarian emergency that is playing out on the eu's doorstep. this decision must be accompanied by a new approach to european funding for migration. an ambitious union policy, both to deal with the emergency and to look at the medium and long term, can only be achieved if it is adequately financed. it is not the first time that parliament has sounded the alarm by calling for a substantial increase in the appropriations allocated to the union's migration policies. this increase in funding must of course be accompanied by strict control of the use of funds and greater transparency in the procurement and subcontracting procedures, because of the abuses already noted in the use of these funds in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament supported the commission's proposal to increase the budget for migration by the end of the year in order to respond to the unprecedented crisis europe is currently experiencing. the financial, technical and human resources of the european external borders agency frontex, the european asylum support office and the european police office europol will be strengthened. the asylum, immigration and integration fund (amif) to support member states' actions will also be increased. in total, these agencies will receive an additional €75 million. i welcome this decision, which responds to an urgency and a need, given the migratory phenomenon we are experiencing with more than 150 000 migrants having crossed the mediterranean since the beginning of the year.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the report on draft amending budget no 5/2015. the report focuses in particular on the resumption of the frontex surveillance agency. if the latter was supposed to guard our borders, we can only see that it has failed and that today it is mainly used to bring boats of illegal immigrants back to europe, to ensure that they do not sink at sea. the report calls for a substantial increase in frontex funding to eur 89 million. if such an increase seems to be in the right direction, we know that in practice we cannot fight illegal immigration in this way. frontex must either be abolished or be radically redesigned so that it can effectively and finally fulfil its mission: to stop all illegal immigration to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on the draft amending budget to deal with migratory pressures. the report strengthens the union's capacity to deal with asylum and migration by increasing the financial resources of three agencies: frontex, europol and easo. the report proposes to create 23 additional posts at these three agencies to meet the increase in activity. the appropriations for two other agencies (amif and isf) were also increased. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on draft amending budget no 5/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 coping with migratory pressures. this amending budget would strengthen the union's resources in the field of asylum and migration by increasing the budget of the agencies concerned, while keeping the level of payments in 2015 unchanged, as it is a redeployment of appropriations from the galileo programme, which has fallen behind schedule.
in writing. ‒ following the tragedies in the mediterranean linked to the influx of migrants, the union presents draft amending budget no 5 for the financial year 2015 aimed at 'strengthening eu resources for the management of migration and refugee flows'. the commission has therefore decided to: 1) increase the appropriations for the frontex agency (26.8 million), to triple the funding for operations triton and poseidon for the remainder of 2015, the effectiveness of which is more than hypothetical since it is limited to completely unnecessary monitoring missions; 2) to better distribute the "burden" of asylum in order to "accept an ever-increasing number of migrants". in total, this means an increase in funding of €89 million in commitment appropriations, the bulk of which is taken from the galileo programme budget. it goes without saying that this plan will prove to be completely useless and even harmful since it creates a gigantic air demand. the only solution is to re-establish national borders and adopt a policy of firmness along the lines of australia. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against it. the project will remove €89 million from the galileo programme budget to benefit refugee aid programmes. under the guise of a better distribution of the burden of asylum, we are actually giving ourselves a good conscience by accepting even more refugees than we can in any case take in under decent conditions.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to approve an increase in resources for the management of migration flows. in reality, the main aim is to strengthen the security capabilities of frontex and europol rather than to prevent human tragedies in the mediterranean or to eliminate the causes of immigration suffered by migrants who are forced to leave their countries. the most indecent and grotesque aspect, however, is the way in which this extension is financed: a cutting of the galileo programme, which is vital for the union's technological autonomy and also for information on migration in the mediterranean. i am voting against these short-sighted budgetary maneuvers.
in writing. ‒ this draft budget provides for an increase in order to better manage migration flows. the budget provides for an increase in the appropriations for the frontex surveillance agency. it is worth noting that this budget allocated to frontex is intended to strengthen border surveillance, whereas we know that it is too late to monitor and that we must take concrete action against immigration. the total increase is €89 million and a good part of this would be taken from the galileo budget which should not be cut. while we might have thought that this increase in appropriations would go our way to combat immigration in particular, we see that as always the union does not propose a concrete solution. the member therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to increase the union's resources for managing migration and refugee flows. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have not yet adopted the euro. the final figure would be €89 million more, at the expense of the galileo satellite positioning system. we are against this text.
in writing. ‒ following the tragedies in the mediterranean linked to the influx of migrants, the union presents draft amending budget no 5 for the financial year 2015 aimed at 'strengthening eu resources for the management of migration and refugee flows'. the aim is therefore to increase the appropriations of the frontex agency (26.8 million), to triple the funding of operations triton and poseidon for the rest of 2015, the effectiveness of which is more than hypothetical since we limit ourselves to completely useless monitoring missions; to better distribute the "burdens" in the field of asylum in order to "accept an ever greater number of migrants". in total, this means an increase in funding of €89 million in commitment appropriations, the bulk of which is taken from the galileo programme budget. it goes without saying that this plan will prove to be completely useless and even harmful since it creates a gigantic air demand. the only solution is to re-establish national borders and adopt a policy of firmness along the lines of australia. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the budgetary aspect of eu migration policy for 2015. the aim is to increase the financial resources of three eu agencies - frontex, the european asylum support office and europol - and to create 23 posts between them. the appropriations for the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund are also increased. the operation remains financially neutral, with the unused appropriations from the galileo programme being redistributed to these agencies.
in writing. ‒ following the tragedies in the mediterranean caused by the influx of migrants, the eu presents draft amending budget no 5 for the financial year 2015 aimed at 'strengthening eu resources for the management of migration and refugee flows'. the commission has therefore decided to increase the appropriations for the frontex agency (26.8 million) in order to triple the funding for operations triton and poseidon for the remainder of 2015, while their effectiveness is more than hypothetical since they are limited to completely unnecessary monitoring missions, and to better distribute the "burden" in the area of asylum in order to "accept an ever greater number of migrants". in total, the increase in funding was mainly in the form of commitment appropriations of eur 89 million, the bulk of which was taken from the galileo programme budget. it goes without saying that this plan will prove to be completely useless and rather harmful, since it creates a gigantic air demand. the only solution is to re-establish national borders and adopt a policy of firmness along the lines of australia. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the urgent migration situation, the commission proposed to reallocate some lines of the budget surplus to cope with migratory pressures. i voted in favour of this amending budget. the amendment aims to strengthen the union's capacity to deal with asylum and migration by increasing the financial resources of three agencies (frontex, the european asylum office and europol). other funds related to migration and security issues have also been strengthened.
in writing. ‒ this amending budget, which increases the eu's budgetary appropriations for migration and asylum, is a first step towards helping the union and the member states to better cope with the reality of migration. this phenomenon requires an urgent response, but also a longer-term one. however, the amounts allocated will not be sufficient to meet the real needs and to finance the measures of the european programme on migration. it is essential that the european budget for 2016 address these shortcomings. the proposal to increase easo's staff by four posts is clearly insufficient in view of the increasing role of the agency. the priority is given as always to frontex. of course, it is crucial to strengthen search and rescue operations at sea to save lives. but beyond that, it's time for a paradigm shift. instead of being locked into the costly and inefficient logic of border control and return policy, let us develop a real policy of welcoming and integrating migrants. legal migration is not a problem but an opportunity, which will bring real economic and social added value to the european union, for the benefit of all.
in writing. ‒ once again we had to decide on migration policies. this time it was a question of integrating the budgetary consequences of the 'european agenda on migration', which gave rise to the surrealist debates known in the council, where the member states hesitated to allocate some 40 000 asylum seekers, or 0.005% of the european population. the title of the amending budget says it all: 'coping with migratory pressures'. the message is clear, it is not about meeting the protection needs of syrian and eritrean refugees (to name just a few) seeking protection in europe, but only about strengthening fortress europe. while i can support an increase in the budget allocated to the development of a genuine common european asylum system, i have my doubts when we see that it is primarily a question of identifying potential asylum seekers in order to better deport them in the event of rejection of their application. we have little information on the actual use of these funds, which were financed by a redistribution of appropriations to the detriment of the galileo project. i refuse to risk giving the commission a blank cheque in this context and therefore voted against.
explanations of vote by oral procedure
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the end of milk quotas, which came into effect on 31 march, together with a russian embargo on this sector, has put producers in difficulty. it is the rural areas that are obviously most affected, particularly isolated areas such as mountainous areas. the european union is trying to solve the problems it has created with this proposal. this report attempts to reintroduce some market measures. it is therefore an initiative, albeit modest, which is in the right direction, and that is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ in a particularly difficult context for the european dairy sector, i voted in favour of this report. the milk package is a useful instrument for maintaining the stability of dairy farmers' incomes and for anticipating certain economic accidents. i would like the commission to make this text one of its priorities and to step up controls on large retailers and to encourage concentration in the sector and greater territorial differentiation.
in writing. ‒ until 31 march, milk quotas limited milk production in each country in order to avoid a too sharp fall in the price paid to farmers: the abolition of these quotas constitutes a serious threat to french producers. the fact is that while european farmers can now produce as much as they want, it is primarily the countries with low production costs that will benefit. the end of quotas will thus increase competition between the french sector (the second largest european producer of cow's milk after germany) and the large producers in northern europe, which are not subject to the same standards as our farmers. international competition will therefore encourage all forms of dumping and an increase in imports, leading to a loss of market share for dairy products manufactured in france. the report was intended to introduce some measures to remedy the most obvious adverse effects of this total liberalisation of the milk market. however, the timidity of the proposed measures and their catch-all nature led me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ as of 31 march 2015, the milk quotas have effectively and definitively ended in the union. this has caused great tension and concern for the dairy industry. already hit hard by the crisis, deregulation of markets and the eu's lax standards, our farmers, especially small farms, are at risk of losing even more purchasing power (many often sell at a loss in this sector!). in addition, the russian embargo following the union measures has aggravated the difficulties of the sector. although the text contains measures to protect farmers, such as the introduction of concrete aid in areas at risk and the strengthening of the power of producer organisations in contract negotiations, it does not in any way call into question the liberal agricultural policies pursued by the union for years. worse, paragraph 72 of the act mentions 'the possibility of using risk management instruments, such as futures markets, to take advantage of the volatility of the sector to increase its competitiveness'. a sector that is totally liberalized and subject to the laws of the market! i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the milk package suggests once again that the european union must correct the undesirable effects of its agricultural policy, and this at the expense of the dairy sector. the end of the milk quotas, previously introduced by the union, has been effective since march 2015. this has raised serious concerns about falling prices and the disappearance of small farms in rural areas, in a context of russian counter-sanctions that have worsened the sector's difficulties. the commission's proposal proposes to take concrete aid measures to preserve the territorial balance and enable the sector to cope with the liberalisation imposed by the union. this motion for a resolution seeks to resolve the difficulties of a strategic sector of the french economy. it also demonstrates the eu's leadership by not allowing the member states to pursue their own policies. for these reasons i abstained on the vote on this text.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report which seeks to stem the disastrous effects of the end of milk quotas which expired on 31 march 2015 in line with the decision taken in the 2003 cap mid-term review. the text thus recalls the important role of dairy farming in terms of land use planning, rural employment and economic, environmental and social development of many european agricultural regions. taking into account the adverse effects of the russian embargo on our agricultural production, the report gives a genuine recognition of the crisis in the dairy sector and calls on the commission to intervene by introducing additional targeted market measures, in particular to counter the effects of the downward pressure on prices resulting from the lack of adequate instruments to prevent the crisis, a drop in world demand, the volatility of prices at world level. although he remains timid about what measures should be taken to protect our farmers, i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this own-initiative report is to take stock of the implementation of the milk package and to propose a new european milk policy following the end of the quota system. in view of the serious situation of the dairy sector, with its prices falling, i am convinced that market law alone will not prevent a new crisis similar to that of 2008. new regulatory tools must be put in place to avoid overproduction in the long term to the detriment of the whole of europe. as such, some solutions exist, such as strengthening contractual arrangements between producers and distributors, developing dynamic crisis management tools and making essential use of the milk market observatory, set up during the last reform of the cap. i believe that it is essential to help dairy farms and to ensure that farmers are able to meet the demands of the market, and i therefore voted in favour of this report, which must not be forgotten and which must be heard by the commission.
in writing. the common agricultural policy has long been marked by the milk quota system. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to compensate for the additional costs of the milk levy. i voted in favour of this text which takes stock of the implementation of this new regulatory model. for the past two months, farmers and processors have had to fill in compulsory declarations of quantities of milk supplied. these are accompanied by contracts between the states and the producer organisations, aimed at planning production while ensuring the balance between the different links in the milk supply chain. finally, the change of regime in the dairy sector must be accompanied by increased vigilance against market disturbances. the data provided by the european milk market observatory will be valuable in this respect.
in writing. ‒ european milk producers are facing major structural challenges with the end of milk quotas and cyclical challenges with the consequences of the russian embargo. they must have assistance from the union to deal with them. firstly, the union must have the tools to respond to crisis situations, given the particularly volatile nature of the food market. it must also be able to protect producers against certain unfair trading practices from third countries. secondly, the union must help the dairy sector to regain its competitiveness. this sector needs all our support because it has been very destabilized by the abolition of milk quotas. export markets need to be diversified and new outlets identified. finally, the recognition of producer and farmer organisations needs to be improved.
in writing. ‒ as milk quotas ended on 31 march 2015, this report provides a timely and useful assessment of the implementation of the 'milk package', which is why i voted in favour. dairy farming plays an important role in many agricultural regions in europe in terms of land use, rural employment and economic and social development. although the dairy sector has long-term potential for growth and job creation, the market outlook is currently uncertain, with very high price volatility, in the context of the prolonged russian embargo. it is therefore important to: facilitate the exchange of information and the consultation of producers in order to enable them to take account of market developments and to anticipate crises; promote inter-branch management tools; adapt the market intervention tools, since intervention prices must be adapted to production costs in the member states; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. finally, unfair trading practices, which severely limit the profitability and ability of firms to invest and thus adapt to markets, must be tackled.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the future of the european milk sector: review of the implementation of the milk package. it is trying very hard to bring some measures to the crisis left by the disappearance of milk quotas. many farmers complain that this is being done in favour of large industrial groups capable of mass production, which is having a negative effect on the final price of milk. the small farms suffer the direct consequences of this suppression by selling their milk at a loss. it should also be noted that this does not encourage short circuits, which are carried by local farmers and herders and not by the powerful in the sector. the union is therefore trying to remedy a situation which it has itself created.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, beyond certain measures of common sense, it advocates securitisation of agricultural production, particularly on futures markets, which i am totally opposed to.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the 'milk package', which came into force in 2012, is an important tool to address the challenges facing the dairy sector, particularly in terms of market management now that the quota system has disappeared. the abolition of quotas could lead to a further concentration of milk production to the benefit of the larger dairy farms and to the detriment of the smaller producers, whom we must therefore protect. i regret, however, that the implementation of the milk package has been rather disappointing so far. it needs to be improved, and i support in particular the development of additional tools to better anticipate and deal with crisis situations and market volatility, which is a major challenge for producers.
in writing. ‒ the crisis facing milk producers since the end of the milk quota system shows that the european union was insufficiently prepared for a situation of extreme gravity that we could have predicted. the existence of dairy farms is not only essential to our economies, it is also essential to the identity of our countryside. the current episode of extreme price volatility combined with unfair trading practices in certain sectors of the supply chain exposes farmers to an unstable situation, placing them in a state of vulnerability and discouragement that is strictly intolerable. europe's role is to support efforts to modernise and invest in agriculture so that it can face global competition. it is certainly not to be destroyed by the mere force of market law. it is urgent to propose a new european milk policy which will establish mechanisms for more relaxed regulation of the dairy sector.
in writing. ‒ the end of milk quotas, which came into effect on 31 march, together with a russian embargo in this sector, has put producers in difficulty. it is the rural areas that are obviously most affected, particularly isolated areas such as mountainous areas. the european union is trying to solve the problems it has created with this proposal. this report attempts to reintroduce some market measures. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague john nicholson's report on the implementation of the milk package. in view of the end of milk quotas on 31 march 2015, the union had put in place a measure to ensure a better balance between milk producers and their buyers so that producers are not disadvantaged by traders. the report recalls the importance of milk producers for europe's food independence and their vulnerability. the text also stresses the inadequacy of the current security measures to deal with the new challenges that the end of milk quotas will create. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the european dairy sector. in view of the difficulties affecting national milk markets, notably due to the russian embargo, it is essential to give priority to this issue and to strengthen targeted market measures in order to make the dairy sector viable, competitive and sustainable in the union.
in writing. ‒ last year saw a sharp fluctuation in the prices of milk and certain components for milk production. as it stands, the prices paid to producers are well below the costs of production. to top it all off, the end of production quotas aggravates these trends by no longer guaranteeing fair incomes and by seriously undermining the viability of small farms. in the end, we are seeing a strengthening of large producers at the expense of small ones, concentrating production more and more, against consumer choice, environmental rules and the activity of rural areas. this resolution rightly raises alarm bells for dairy farmers, but it does not call for any change in the current production rules. it merely calls for playing with the current instruments, when they have no impact on the trends of funds! i am, on the contrary, in favour of price controls and i am calling for a mechanism of remunerative prices on production volumes to compensate farmers for their work. that is why i opposed the adoption of this report, which does not provide any financial solution to the current crisis in our countryside.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. it is true that he has the merit of trying to help dairy farmers who are in a worrying economic situation. it aims in particular to strengthen the power of producer organisations to negotiate milk sales contracts. however, this text will not work miracles. the end of milk quotas has plunged milk producers into lasting difficulties, by unwarrantedly submitting their production to the law of the market. much more serious is the fact that this text endorses the new system by giving in to the ultra-liberalism prevailing in the country, particularly in paragraph 72.
in writing. - i abstained. the end of the milk quota is bad news for the sector. the draft contains good proposals, such as support for farms in lessfavoured areas, producer organisations and the announced desire to avoid the consequences of too much deregulation. there is therefore a desire to push the commission to act, which it has not done so far. that said, there are other concerns. suggesting that future markets should be relied upon for risk management and that price volatility should be used to make the sector more competitive appears to be a threat to the sector. this is the consequence of the liberal model which encourages the concentration of farms to make them more productive and competitive. however, this is at the expense of other more fragile farms with negative impacts on rural areas. so there is a kind of contradiction in this all-purpose report. my colleagues and i do not want to risk sacrificing our farms on the altar of productivity.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the text seeks to alleviate the uncertainties linked to the end of milk quotas, which came into effect on 31 march 2015. this end to quotas had caused great concern among the professionals who feared that market laws would cause prices to fall and production to be lost. the text proposes that the commission should re-establish quotas in certain areas at risk, under the pretext of protecting the territorial balance. this report is an attempt by the union to go backwards, now that it has realised its mistake. we blame him for his decision to end the quotas which is the cause of the problem, but we welcome this attempt to remedy the crisis in the sector.
in writing. ‒ on 31 march 2015, milk quotas expired, as decided in the 2003 cap mid-term review. in an increasingly deregulated world market and in a context of price volatility, selling prices are often lower than production costs. the text rightly regrets the disappearance of quotas and proposes a 'milk package' which should make it possible, by means of contractual arrangements between the producers and those involved in processing/distribution, to plan production volumes and to strengthen the supply chains. back to square one? however, the text does not for one moment envisage a reorientation of european agricultural production towards consumption or the introduction of protectionism on these products. it merely 'asks the commission to define an adequate legal framework to enable production to be organised through supply management in the milk sector'. i am voting against this text which does not take account of the ecological and trade issues raised.
in writing. ‒ the end of milk quotas, which took effect on 31 march, accompanied by a russian embargo in this sector, has put producers in difficulty. it is the rural areas that are obviously most affected, particularly isolated areas such as mountainous areas. the european union is trying to solve the problems it has created with this proposal. this report attempts to reintroduce some market measures. the member voted in favour of this solution as the lesser of two evils.
in writing. this nicholson report on the implementation of the 'milk package' comes as part of the end of milk quotas effective since 31 march 2015. this decision may have raised concerns and even indignation among the dairy sector. our farmers have already been hit hard by the crisis and the deregulation of the markets, and now they risk losing substantial income to the biggest producers. many are forced to sell at a loss. the russian embargo also substantially affected the exports of french operators. this text does not call into question the deregulation policies pursued by the union for years and confirms the dismantling of community preference, even if it timidly tries to protect farmers a little more, in particular by introducing aid in danger zones and strengthening the powers of producer organisations in the negotiations. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the implementation of the 'milk package' and the prospects for the dairy sector. i have in particular, with a view to defending the interests of our milk producers, supported the adoption of paragraph 9, which condemns the council's inaction on the implementation of aid to producers who voluntarily reduce their production in times of crisis. i also voted in favour of the paragraphs in the text which aim to improve the structure of the dairy sector and to introduce income stabilisation instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nicholson report on the future of the european dairy sector and the review of the implementation of the milk package. the latter, which has been in force since october 2012, has provided operators with tools to address the challenges faced by the dairy sector. it has strengthened contractual relations and increased bargaining power through producer organisations and inter-branch organisations. however, i would remind you that supply management measures, which contribute to the stability of the milk market, must be supported, as must all measures to punish farmers who overproduce in times of crisis.
in writing. ‒ this report on the implementation of the 'milk package' is part of the end of milk quotas, which came into effect on 31 march 2015. this decision has raised concerns and even outrage among those involved in the milk sector. our farmers are already heavily affected by the crisis and the deregulation of the markets and are now at risk of substantial income losses to the benefit of the larger producers. many are now forced to sell at a loss. the russian embargo also had a significant impact on the exports of french operators. this text does not call into question the deregulation policies pursued by the union for years and confirms the dismantling of community preference, even if it timidly tries to protect farmers a little more, such as the introduction of aid in danger zones and the strengthening of the powers of producer organisations in the negotiations. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, member states reassessed the cap and decided to end the quota system as from 31 march 2015. after a long quota period of 30 years, this decision will have several impacts on the dairy sector. the report adopted by parliament lists the various challenges and prospects for the dairy sector in the union and takes stock of the implementation of the milk package. i voted in favour of this report. however, i regret that some points were not included, particularly with regard to the inclusion of supply management measures. these measures should be supported as they contribute to the stability of the milk market.
in writing. ‒ with the end of milk quotas, the european union must consider a new european milk policy to avoid a crisis like the one the dairy sector experienced in 2008. the end of milk quotas is a real economic challenge for the dairy sector and it is essential to help farmers and ensure that they are well placed to meet market demands. the commission should therefore consider solutions such as strengthening contractual arrangements between producers and distributors or developing crisis management tools. the milk market observatory must also play a leading role in crisis prevention and, in the long term, it is imperative to consider mechanisms to avoid overproduction. it is in this sense that i have supported this report which allows parliament to express its concerns and make proposals on european dairy policy.
in writing. the milk quotas expired at the end of march 2015, ending the public regulation of supply, which limited the geographical concentration of production and fluctuations in market prices. the nicholson report takes stock of the 'milk package' put in place in 2009 to meet this deadline. the report regrets that the implementation of the milk package was not a priority for the commission. the protection of the dairy sector against price volatility remains insufficient and does not guarantee farmers' incomes. parliament proposed improving the milk market observatory and developing effective crisis management tools. the aim is to anticipate market failures in order to limit their influence on producers. tools for regulating supply should be put in place. the report draws attention to the most vulnerable areas which will be particularly affected by the end of milk quotas. it called for measures to support rural development. this report highlights the many challenges facing the dairy sector and calls on the commission to respond decisively. i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i abstained. the end of the milk quota is bad news for the sector. the draft contains good proposals, such as support for farms in lessfavoured areas, producer organisations and the announced desire to avoid the consequences of too much deregulation. there is therefore a desire to push the commission to act, which it has not done so far. that said, there are other concerns. suggesting that future markets should be relied upon for risk management and that price volatility should be used to make the sector more competitive appears to be a threat to the sector. it is the free trade model that encourages the concentration of farms to make them more productive and competitive. this is, however, at the expense of other, more fragile farms. so there is a kind of contradiction in this all-purpose report. the delegation from the national front also does not want to risk sacrificing our farms on the altar of productivism.
in writing. ‒ the milk quota system ended on 31 march. this report from the european parliament takes stock of possible developments in this area. in line with previous reports, we are told that since world demand "remains dynamic", production "could increase" and prices are "slightly up", the sector is doing well. that's not true, man. the end of quotas puts many producers in a difficult situation, leaving them at the mercy of the dairy industry. production will be concentrated in the hands of the biggest producers and the smaller ones will not be able to cope. to allow these industries the power to impose their conditions is to destroy thousands of jobs and to upset whole territories. we have been warning for months about the abolition of quotas and nothing has been done to protect our producers. we must provide them with a fair wage and food sovereignty. but that is not how we will achieve it. i am voting against this happy report, which is touting the alleged benefits of free and undistorted competition in the common good of milk.
explanations of vote by oral procedure
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ this report particularly promotes public-private partnerships, which are presented as beneficial for the european economy. these public-private partnerships prove to be so disastrous financially for public authorities that there are many examples where initial funding projects are abandoned in order to limit the explosion of costs. the question of the development of such partnerships in third countries is therefore a matter of concern, particularly for emerging countries which could soon be victims of the same plunder as that suffered by french public authorities. moreover, access to national markets by foreign firms through these partnerships is questionable. companies from 'protectionist' countries will be able to win easily accessible public contracts without necessarily having to reciprocate. once again, the union tolerates this kind of distortion of competition without anyone reacting. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that smes are the engine of job and wealth creation in developing countries, and that they generate about 90% of jobs. it is therefore essential to engage more closely with smes and start-ups, both local and private, as they are essential for the mobilisation of resources and job creation at national or european level, in public-private partnerships to mobilise long-term funding, stimulate innovation in technologies and business models and define private sector accountability mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ this report is a very liberal catechism, which says that there can be no economic dynamism unless there is more "interaction" between the public and private sectors, through joint ventures and other joint projects: the text emphasises ppps (public-private partnerships). in fact, it turns out that ppps are primarily used to deregulate and liberalise public sectors, such as health care. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. this report on the external impact of the union's trade and investment policy in third countries tries to make us believe that public-private interactions, joint ventures or joint projects are inherently good for the economy. while it is good in areas such as research to engage more in public-private partnerships, this should not encourage or favour ppps, the negative effects of which we know, since the final costs are often higher (and even more so than if there had been public borrowing in many cases). the report therefore encourages the use of such a system, particularly in emerging countries, to cope with the lack of financial resources. however, other measures such as customs duties are never mentioned in european policies. so i decided against your report.
in writing. ‒ the european economy is still suffering from a significant slowdown due to the crisis. it is necessary to stimulate job creation and restore real competitiveness and productivity within the union in order to restart sustainable growth. investment outside the single market could be a major source of growth for eu enterprises. this report aims to strengthen the instruments of our companies, especially smes, enabling them to compete in foreign markets. increased participation by european enterprises in large-scale international projects, particularly in public-private partnerships, could bring substantial productivity and competitiveness benefits. i would like to stress the importance of reciprocity and fair competition in our trade relations with third countries. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is based more on beliefs than on facts in relation to development, in this particular case, particularly for third countries. the idea is that only interactions between the public and private sectors in joint projects or joint ventures would boost economic dynamism, the model being public-private partnerships. the costs of public investment in the latter are too often overlooked, even though they can be an alternative for infrastructure financing. the problem is that in this context our public procurement is open to companies from countries which are protective. the report calls for a complete reduction in this asymmetry, but does not give any real prospect of negotiation. while the desire to ensure that our companies have access to third-party public procurement is welcome, it is inconceivable to try to introduce wto-style dispute settlement mechanisms once again, to the detriment of national courts.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to examine the challenges posed by public-private partnerships for european smes in the context of the union's common commercial policy. the approach advocated is to strengthen the competitiveness of european companies when participating in public procurement in third countries. given that there are a number of potential economic benefits and inherent risks that can be shared between the public and private sectors, i believe that european companies should be able to participate in large-scale international projects in the form of public-private partnerships and that the european institutions should take steps to promote this participation. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the internal market operates in accordance with the principle of free competition, not only for the benefit of european operators but also for companies established in third countries. this policy of openness also applies to public procurement. conversely, some of the union's trading partners continue to favour national operators, mainly when it comes to concluding public-private partnership contracts. we have asked, by voting on this text, that free trade agreements with third countries, negotiated by the commission on behalf of the european union, include clauses opening public procurement procedures to european companies.
in writing. ‒ the text codifies certain european rules on trade. the european commission will now be able to initiate, conduct and close international dispute settlement procedures from the moment it receives a complaint from european companies. this new procedure will improve the coherence and effectiveness of the european trade policy, which is the exclusive competence of the union. the member states will of course be informed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am opposed to public-private partnerships on principle
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jan zahradil on the external impact of the union's trade and investment policy in third countries. the report encourages the union to promote public-private partnerships involving european companies in countries outside the union. the text recalls that these partnerships can have extremely positive effects for smes and european companies, but that they must be reciprocal, since european markets are already very open, unlike those of many third countries. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the external impact of the union's trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in third countries. the establishment of public-private partnerships in third countries, in accordance with the principles of good governance, would create decent jobs and combat poverty in developing countries and open up new employment and growth opportunities for european companies that still face obstacles to their development abroad.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the external impact of the union's trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in third countries. the front national is opposed to public-private partnerships, which are a tool for deregulation and liberalisation, and which open up the health sector to the private sector in particular. the report by mr zahradil is entirely in line with the logic of ppps. that is why i supported amendment no 1, which fundamentally rewrites this report, but which unfortunately was not adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is in favour of public-private partnerships (ppps), which i am opposed to. ppps are very costly for public investment.
in writing. - i voted against it. while the costs of public-private partnerships are very high, they are described in this text as the solution for developing infrastructure in emerging countries. the report recommends the establishment of well-defined policies to address the differences in openness between our public procurement and that of other countries. unfortunately, there is no indication of what can be done in the field of negotiations. the creation of information and assistance platforms to support our companies in accessing public procurement in third countries is recommended, as is the establishment of dispute settlement mechanisms with these third countries. however, we refuse to support this text because we believe that public-private partnerships are not a good solution and because the commission is always trying to gain more and more power.
in writing. - i voted against this report. we cannot support public-private partnerships (ppps), which are catastrophic in terms of the cost of public investment, giving a free hand to private multinationals, without allowing small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) to have a certain weight. we therefore disagree with the commission, which considers these partnerships to be good. we therefore condemn the asymmetry which allows firms in protectionist markets to access our open public procurement.
in writing. ‒ the zahradil report sets out to consider the creation of a new legal framework for public-private partnerships (ppps). it also seeks to promote an international definition of ppps, listing their advantages, limitations and prospects for improvement. the report is commendable for its clarity in calling on the commission to take a very high view of the openness it has imposed on european public procurement, even though many of our partners are not acting with the same naivety (the discussions on the transatlantic treaty with the united states show this daily). the rapporteur also makes some interesting points, specifying in particular that ppps should not be a first step towards privatising the public services of the countries concerned. the report goes too far, however, in asserting that public-private partnerships should be the preferred instrument for encouraging the development of the countries of the south. it also tends to see ppps as both an effective substitute for declining public spending and a good way to revive growth in europe. in view of this flawed reasoning and the liberal tropism of the rapporteur, i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the report begins by stating as a well-established fact that 'societies benefit from an environment favourable to interaction between the public and private sectors'. the text aims to promote public-private partnerships, particularly in developing countries. the report calls for the markets of these countries to be opened up to european companies, which will be able to meet their important infrastructure needs. i vote against this law which is unjust and which plans to plunder developing countries.
in writing. this report tries to make us believe that public-private interactions, joint ventures or joint projects are inherently good for the economy. however, while this willingness to break down the walls between the public and private sectors is sometimes necessary and beneficial, particularly in research, this should not be seen as a blanket endorsement of public-private partnerships, whose harmfulness is well known: the costs are passed on to future generations and the projects are often more expensive than pure public investment. the report encourages its development in the emerging countries to cope with the lack of budgetary resources! one of the resources that remains taboo for the europeans could be customs duties which have been largely abolished under the auspices of the wto. the report also calls for the "absorption of the asymmetry of openness" between public procurement in the eu and in other countries, without disclosing any means of achieving this. i therefore voted against this text which extols the merits of public-private partnerships.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the union's trade and investment policy in third countries. this text states that a country's societies and economic structures benefit from an environment conducive to interaction between the public and private sectors and to cooperation between public and private entities, including through joint projects and joint ventures. public-private partnerships are a driver for economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation, both inside and outside the single market. they also play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure, including energy, road, digital and water supply infrastructure. the report also points out that eu companies are well placed to win and manage these markets.
in writing. i voted against this rapporteur who shamelessly promotes public-private partnerships in developing countries. we know that these new public procurement models are a financial ditch for local authorities to the benefit of companies, who use them to make a fat profit off the taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends that enterprises in the member states develop public-private partnerships in third countries. however, it does not envisage any serious way of allowing these same companies access to external markets protected by protectionist measures, whereas public procurement in the union must be open, even without reciprocity. again, this is pure ideology, a dogma imposing practices that have proven ineffective and even harmful (the example of the georges-pompidou hospital in paris alone should disgust anyone of sound mind with the concept of public-private partnership). worse still, this ideology is still applied at the expense of the economies of the countries of the union, because the other states of the world retain the protections that are in their interest and do not hesitate to take all the necessary measures to safeguard the sectors they consider strategic. once again, in the name of an absurd liberal dogma, it is the union's businesses, and therefore the citizens, who are the butt of the farce. i shall of course vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the face of increased trade between the european union and third countries, and the growth of european investment in third countries, it is important to protect the interests of our businesses and ensure the competitiveness of the european economy. in this context, the european parliament adopted a report on the external impact of the union's trade and investment policy in third countries. i voted in favour of this report. the text also stresses the importance of public-private partnerships in trade between the union and third countries.
in writing. ‒ public-private partnerships (ppps) are long-term contracts between the government and a private partner, whereby the private partner provides and finances a public service using assets and sharing the associated risks. the public sector can thus benefit from and benefit from the experience of the private sector in its construction. these ppps represent a number of potential benefits and inherent risks. increased participation of european enterprises in international projects under these ppps could have positive effects on job creation, productivity, competitiveness, technology and innovation. however, this development must take place in the context of positive reciprocity in public procurement and access to ppps. investors must have sufficient legal and good governance guarantees for their long-term investments, and smes must be able to become more competitive in international markets. i therefore supported this report, which calls for measures to promote the participation of european companies, especially smes, in ppps.
in writing. ‒ this report explains that public-private interactions, joint ventures and joint projects are good for economic dynamism (including public-private partnerships). public-private partnerships are catastrophic in terms of the cost of public investment and are described as the way to develop infrastructure in emerging countries, given the lack of budgetary resources. the tools to be implemented by the commission, council and parliament according to this report are: - to address the asymmetry of openness between our public procurement and that of other countries by requests for openness! however, no real negotiation is envisaged;- creating information and assistance platforms for our companies to have access to third-party public contracts;- working on the establishment of mechanisms for settling disputes with third countries so that our investments are well protected. this may mean the shunting of national courts. we obviously disagree with this report both in the use of ppps and in the commission's desire to take advantage of its power. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with public-private partnerships (ppps) and their promotion in relations with third countries. the initial observation, which 'considers it regrettable that the union has kept its public procurement very largely open to international competition', can only be shared. however, the conclusion drawn is cynical: if free trade has wreaked havoc in europe, there is no reason why the union's trading partners should not also pay the price! the report therefore focuses on the enormous infrastructure needs in developing countries and calls for the opening up of markets for european companies. the 'economic partnership' agreements (epas) for african countries, but also free trade agreements of all kinds with tunisia, mexico, vietnam, etc., are covered here. with my group in the gue-ngl, i oppose deregulation and liberalisation of the public sector, the diversion of development funds to private enterprises and the damage already caused by ppps in developing countries, particularly in the agriculture and health sectors. i therefore voted against this report.
explanations of vote by oral procedure
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the fruit and vegetable sector will need to be reformed in the coming months. the melo report, to which i have made several contributions, makes a number of recommendations to this end. the most important are: - adapting and clarifying the rules governing the creation of producer organisations so that the sector is better organised collectively; - increasing support for producer organisations; - introducing crisis prevention and management instruments; - combating unfair trading practices in the food chain, especially in the retail sector; - strengthening sustainability and environmental protection; - stimulating innovation and research; - promoting short-circuits and school fruit and vegetable consumption programmes; - applying reciprocity in external trade; - fighting more effectively against the import of organisms harmful to plants. i will support this important own-initiative report on the economy and employment, particularly in the mediterranean regions, which are the largest fruit and vegetable producing areas in europe.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has been particularly difficult to negotiate for the fruit and vegetables sector, which is mainly composed of small and medium-sized farms and enterprises. it is a significant part of european agriculture, generating a turnover of 120 billion euros a year. the consumption of fruit and vegetables has fallen sharply, especially among younger people, increasing the risk of obesity. the union's bellicose foreign policy towards russia has led to an embargo by russia, worsening the crisis facing producers. i therefore consider it essential to help this sector and this report is in the right direction, although it does not mention unfair competition from third countries. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it encourages the commission to redouble its efforts to protect farmers from unfair trading practices by large retailers. it makes little sense to invest resources in strengthening and creating po (a slow and difficult process) if the bargaining power in the food chain continues to be predominantly retailer-owned. moreover, since many member states are adopting national measures to address these problems, some coordination is necessary at union level in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. the text on the fruit and vegetable sector since the 2007 reform seeks to support this sector economically through the development of producer organisations but also to participate in health education, especially among children who are less and less aware of nature. all these are commendable objectives and therefore the text seems to be moving in the right direction. however, there are gaps: there is no mention of the differences in pay between eu and non-eu countries, the use of illegal labour by some farmers, or the phytosanitary standards and their implementation. i am in favour of this text despite these shortcomings because i support the national fruit and vegetable sector, which must be given special attention because of the number of jobs it represents.
in writing. ‒ the resolution proposal on the fruit and vegetables sector aims to help a sector in a very difficult economic situation. producer organisations will receive compensatory aid to help them cope with the negative consequences of the restrictions imposed. the fruit and vegetable sector is strategic for europe's food self-sufficiency, but also for its economy. it provides livelihoods for 500 000 europeans in all member states and contributes 18% of the total value of agricultural production. since this text is favourable to french fruit and vegetable producers, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the recent political and health crises illustrate the need to strengthen competitiveness, resilience and innovation in the fruit and vegetable sector. the latter is facing serious problems of competitiveness and organisation. this report is parliament's response to the commission's report on this subject. it does not advocate a change in the current architecture of the fruit and vegetables sector, but identifies successes and progress that can be made. it stresses the need to increase the level of organisation in the sector and make it more attractive, or to combat unfair commercial practices. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report, which gives a snapshot of the state of the fruit and vegetable sector since the 2007 reform. the text acknowledges in particular that, in comparison with private trading companies, producer organisations are subject to a number of restrictions, in particular as regards the use of the funds invested, the structure of the income or the need to sell. the rapporteur also stresses the need to support the fruit and vegetable sector throughout the union, given its importance in terms of added value and jobs and its importance for health through healthy and balanced diets. the report rightly calls on the commission to redouble its efforts to tackle unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, which have a negative impact on producers' revenues, reduce their incomes and put them in a precarious situation, threatening the sustainability and stability of the sector. french farmers themselves are particularly threatened by certain practices of retailers, which is why i support the agri committee's desire to protect our farmers better.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to provide an overview of the state of the european fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. parliament called for the strengthening of producer organisations and inter-branch organisations and for the improvement of the tools to support their actions in europe and at international level. as such, when the cap was reformed, i introduced many tools to strengthen this weight, particularly in trade negotiations. however, it is clear that these tools are still underused in many countries. france has a leading role to play in this respect, in order to assert its vision of producer organisation and interprofessionalism in europe. the report also discusses crisis management and the intervention price. it should be recalled that the member states, including the french government, are required to be solely responsible for fixing the intervention prices. i voted in favour of this report because it is balanced.
in writing. the european union is pursuing a policy of supporting the fruit and vegetable sector by promoting producer organisations, which receive financial support. this form of market regulation should improve the competitiveness of european producers while stabilising their incomes. the role of these organisations is also to attract more young people to agricultural occupations, to reverse the negative demographic trend that the sector is suffering from. the aim is also to encourage the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables. as the report points out, the eu's per capita consumption of alcohol is 387 grams per day, whereas the world health organisation recommends 400 grams.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to encourage farmers to join producer organisations (po), in order to increase their bargaining power, strengthen their position in the food supply chain and thus increase their income in a struggling agricultural sector. it is essential to increase their competitiveness and to address certain unfair trade practices in third countries. the union must help its farmers to find new markets for their products and facilitate exports in the context of the russian embargo and the ongoing trade negotiations being conducted by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the situation of the fruit and vegetables sector after the reform of the common organisation of the market in 2007, as it helps to strengthen a specific policy for the fruit and vegetables sector. producer organisations are the main element. as a means of collective organisation on the market, they are essential in defending producers' incomes. to enhance the effectiveness of collective action by producers, it is also necessary to strengthen producer organisations and to provide for the possibility of involving producers who are not members of a producer organisation in their actions, in particular in the area of good product valuation, crisis management or anticipation and environmental actions. finally, there is a need to strengthen interprofessional networks for their role in improving dialogue within the sector and in general information and food education.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. fruit and vegetable production has declined since 2007. this is worrying for several reasons. firstly, the fruit and vegetable sector employs many french people who are worried about the possible consequences of a decline in production. this is also leading to a decline in consumption, even though fruit and vegetables are a staple food for everyone's health, especially children. finally, this leads to an increase in imports which once again reveals the unfair competition faced by french producer organizations. we must therefore revive the french fruit and vegetable economy, both economically and culturally, in order to produce competitive food, viable for producers and accessible to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the relations between producers and purchasing and distribution centres must be governed by the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text, which aims to present the evolution of the fruit and vegetable sector since the 2007 reform, which made it possible to provide producer organisations with a wider range of instruments to prevent and manage market crises. the report stresses, however, that the persistence of a lack of or a low degree of organisation in the fruit and vegetables sector in some member states remains a major problem. it is therefore necessary to improve the management of producer organisations and to take the necessary measures to ensure a higher degree of organisation and representativeness of producer organisations across all member states.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this report on the implementation of the provisions on producer organisations, operational funds and operational programmes in the fruit and vegetables sector, which have been in force since the 2007 reform. the economic crisis has made it particularly difficult for this agricultural sector to negotiate, especially since it is almost exclusively composed of small and medium-sized enterprises. nevertheless, it is far from negligible, with annual sales of 120 billion euros. however, as the area under cultivation and therefore the production decreased, consumption fell sharply, especially among young people, increasing the risk of obesity. finally, the union's foreign policy has resulted in the russian embargo, which does not facilitate the activity of producers. it is essential to help this sector, and this text is in the right direction, although it does not refer to unfair competition from third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague nuno melo's report on the fruit and vegetable sector since the 2007 reform. the 2007 reform of the sector provides greater protection for fruit and vegetable producers by allowing them to associate in producer organisations. these organisations enable producers to organise themselves better and to increase their production and thus to defend themselves better in negotiations. the report calls on the commission to step up its efforts to combat unfair practices by large retailers and calls for better coordination between member states to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. given the importance of the fruit and vegetables sector in the european union in terms of employment, added value and health, it is essential to strengthen the role of producer organisations and interbranch organisations and to ensure the specificity of the fruit and vegetables sector.
in writing. ‒ this text is a step in the right direction, although we can regret that it does not make enough reference to unfair competition from third countries in terms of employment (the use of illegal labour, but also no reference to differences in wages within the union), nor to differences in regulations relating to phytosanitary standards. our group has proposed amendments to make up for these shortcomings. i am voting in favour because there is a desire to help this sector in crisis and because local, and hence national, sectors are supported and given priority (point ae).
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it aims to help the fruit and vegetable sector, on the one hand, by supporting good food practices among young children in schools and, on the other hand, by strengthening producer organisations.
in writing. - i voted yes. the text aims to help the sector economically through support and development of producer organisations, but also for educational and health reasons, by supporting good food practices among young children in schools. the 2007 reform of the fruit and vegetables sector aimed to improve competitiveness by strengthening fruit and vegetable producer organisations. the sector is experiencing a decline in production which is resulting in an increase in imports, in a difficult context due to the consequences of the russian embargo, but also unfair competition from third countries (tariff barriers, etc.). this text is a step in the right direction, although we can regret that it does not make enough reference to unfair competition from third countries in employment, or to differences in regulations relating to plant health standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which favours, amongst others, the french local fruit and vegetable sectors. this report follows the 2007 reform of the fruit and vegetables sector, which was aimed at making the sector more competitive. the text aims to revitalise the sector through educational, health and economic measures, including support for producer organisations, with the ultimate aim of reviving fruit and vegetable consumption. this positive vote should not make us forget that the text makes little mention of unfair competition from exporting countries.
in writing. ‒ in a process of deregulation, the common agricultural policy has introduced the 'fruit and vegetables' regime, which abandons some of the mechanisms protecting farmers (fixing of minimum prices). this process was linked to a policy to strengthen producer organisations (po), to enable farmers to defend their interests, by selling their products collectively or adding value through processing on the farm. this disengagement of public forces leaves the market in control of production, resulting in a 6% decrease in the area under fruit and vegetables and a 39% decrease in the number of farms between 2003 and 2010. the report details the shortcomings of this system, but does not propose a different model based on ecological planning. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has been particularly difficult for this agricultural sector, especially as it is largely composed of small and medium-sized enterprises. nevertheless, it is far from negligible, with annual sales of 120 billion euros. however, as the area under cultivation and therefore the production decreased, consumption fell sharply, especially among young people, increasing the risk of obesity. finally, the union's foreign policy has resulted in the russian embargo, which does not facilitate the activity of producers. it is essential to help this sector, and this text is in the right direction, although it does not refer to unfair competition from third countries. i voted yes.
in writing. the aim of this report is to support the fruit and vegetable sector economically by developing producer organisations and also by supporting food education, particularly through good food practices in schools. the 2007 reform of the sector was aimed at improving competitiveness by strengthening the organisations of fruit and vegetable producers to cope with any crises in the sector. the sector employs over 550,000 people, most of them smallholders. although the text contains many omissions regarding the decline in production, in particular on the responsibility for unfair competition from third countries (posted and/or clandestine workers, etc.) or on the sanctions against russia (which still cost fruit and vegetable producers a lot), it is still to be welcomed as it supports local and national sectors. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the fruit and vegetables sector. the text recalls that the 2007 reform helped to ensure the specific nature of this agricultural sector and to strengthen the role of producer organisations and inter-branch organisations. i am in favour of these measures because they help to support this sector, which is a source of jobs and added value throughout the european union. it is also important to encourage the consumption of fruit and vegetables, as they contribute to healthy and balanced diets. in the european union, 22 million children are overweight, while adolescents on average consume only 30 to 50 per cent of the recommended daily allowance of fruit and vegetables.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the melo report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. over the past 20 years, the common agricultural policy has reduced the extent of its regulation of agricultural markets, allowing market forces to direct production. the report aims to ensure the specific character of the fruit and vegetables sector and to strengthen the role of producer organisations and interbranch organisations. fruit and vegetables are mostly perishable products, which puts farmers in a particularly vulnerable trading position when market conditions are unfavourable. more efforts are needed to protect farmers against unfair trading practices, which requires some coordination at union level to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to support the fruit and vegetable sector economically, by developing producer organisations, but also by supporting a certain kind of food education, through good food practices, particularly in schools. the 2007 reform of the sector had already set the objective of improving competitiveness by strengthening the organisations of fruit and vegetable producers in order to cope with possible crises in the sector. the sector employs over 550,000 people, most of whom are smallholders. even if the text conveniently omits important factors in the decline in production, in particular the responsibility for unfair competition from third countries (posted and/or clandestine workers, etc.) or the sanctions against russia (which are very costly for fruit and vegetable producers), it is still to be welcomed, since it supports local and national sectors. so i voted for it anyway.
in writing. ‒ in 2007, the reform of the fruit and vegetables regime helped to gradually liberalise this sector, which had been highly protected under the cap. the european parliament adopted the report which gives an overview of the state of play and developments in the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. i voted in favour of this text and i am satisfied with the report's guidelines, which aim in particular to ensure the specific nature of this sector and to strengthen the role of producer organisations and inter-branch organisations. the latter is strategic, as these organisations provide farmers with the means to act in defence of their interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need for a specific policy for the fruit and vegetables sector, with particular emphasis on the essential role of producer organisations and interbranch organisations. the tools of the common agricultural policy represent an opportunity to strengthen the weight of producer organisations and inter-branch organisations, particularly in trade negotiations. these tools are underused and we need to reaffirm the role and place of producer organisations and interbranch organisations in europe. the report also stresses the need to increase the competitiveness of producer organisations and to combat unfair competition.
in writing. i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by nuno melo on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform. the aim is to find ways of ensuring stable incomes for farmers. unfair trading practices, perishable products and recurrent crises are factors that increase farmers' vulnerability and make their incomes more volatile. however, it has been established since 2007 that collective action by producers allows for greater protection. the report therefore proposes to step up european support for producer organisations by simplifying administrative rules, providing more support to small producers and increasing their financial support. it called on the commission to try to overcome the obstacles faced by export producers, in particular by addressing non-tariff barriers. it also stressed the importance of the fruit and vegetable sector in promoting a healthier diet for european citizens. the european parliament, through this own-initiative report, draws the commission's attention to the subject and shows that it is aware of the challenges facing this key sector of agriculture.
in writing. ‒ the 2007 reform of the fruit and vegetables sector aimed to improve competitiveness by strengthening the fruit and vegetables producer organisations (pos) to cope with the various crises. the aim was to make the sector more competitive in view of its importance in terms of employment (550 000 jobs) and because it is a sector of small and medium-sized operators, which should be supported, especially since the sector generates a turnover of eur 120 billion. however, there is a decline in the area under cultivation and therefore in production, with a consequent decline in consumption, as children do not eat enough fruit and vegetables. the text therefore aims to help the sector economically through support and development of producer organisations, but also for educational and health reasons by supporting good food practices among young children in schools. this text is a step in the right direction, although we can regret that it does not make enough reference to unfair competition from third countries in employment or to differences in regulations relating to plant health standards. so i voted for it.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, let me thank you for your strong interest in this proposal, and allow me to recall briefly what our intention was when we tabled this proposal. remember, the financial crisis hit the world economy and some of our societies very hard. structural weaknesses in corporate governance have become more evident, and a broad consensus emerged that short-termism has played an important role in causing and deepening the crisis. this directive is one of the contributions to addressing these shortcomings at eu level. it will also contribute to putting the eu back on the path of long-term sustainable growth. over the last few years capital markets have become more driven by the prospect of quick trading gains rather than by conscious and engaged investment. even investors such as pension funds, whose very mission is to secure a long-term return on investment, have followed the markets and put short-term pressure on companies. we need to encourage more long-term financing and long-term shareholder engagement. this also means more competitive companies on the global stage. we believe that by enhancing corporate governance, we would give investors the necessary tools to engage and protect their rights. this should make european companies more attractive for investors. i would like to thank mr cofferati and all the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts in defining parliament’s position. i welcome the compromise found, and the commission is ready to engage in negotiations with the co-legislators. let me now express some views on several of your amendments. first, concerning transparency obligations on companies about tax matters and tax rulings – the so-called country-by-country reporting. as the honourable members know, the commission is committed to fighting tax evasion and aggressive tax planning and will analyse whether additional disclosure of certain corporate tax information should be introduced. on 17 june, the commission launched a public consultation on possible options, which will feed into the impact assessment work that will be concluded at the latest in the first quarter of 2016. second, concerning measures to incentivise long-term shareholdings through increased voting rights or dividends: while the commission agrees with the overall objective, the question is: how best to achieve this? we should avoid discouraging investors, especially cross-border and foreign investors, from investing in european companies, and we should not lose sight of the interests of minority shareholders. finally, concerning related party transactions, the commission notes that the amendments tone down the original commission proposal. i believe that we need a harmonised threshold for the application of rules on related party transactions in the single market. currently, 40% of shareholders are cross-border based, and the lack of a uniform definition of related party transactions leads to fragmentation and increased costs both for investors and for companies.
for the greens/efa group mr president, with this proposal to amend the shareholder rights directive, the commission has become aware of the need to integrate the issue of long-term investment and this is an excellent thing, because the european economy is suffering from the permanent dictate of urgency and above all of short-term financial profitability. taking into account - as you do and as you have proposed - all the stakeholders, the small shareholders, of course, but also the employees, who constitute the wealth of a company, is extremely positive. however, this was not enough and further work was needed on the question of the opacity which confines the large groups and their activities to a single area. it is obvious to the environmentalists that they are pushing the question of transparency to the question of what is euphemistically called tax optimisation and that they are making sure that we can move forward on this issue. the luxleaks scandal has shown us all that the warnings that have been raised for many years, especially by environmentalists, are of a nature to oblige us to respond. why would you do that? because this famous tax optimisation is a direct attack on fair competition, because large groups can opt for tax optimisation where smes, small businesses and artisans, for example, or the liberal professions cannot. we had to act and i pay tribute to mr cofferati for the quality of his work and his attentiveness, as well as to all the groups who have tried to find a synthesis to ensure that this parliament carries the general interest against national private interests and the tax competition between certain states - the richest, by the way - and the interests of large private groups. yes, commissioner, as i said to mr moscovici and mrs thyssen at the last part-session, you can rely on this parliament to change the rules of operation, so that there is more transparency and less opacity in europe and that we can finally abolish the privileges of some against the general european interest!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis has shown that banking institutions favour short-term returns, thus underperforming our productive apparatus. shareholders, eager to increase the return on their investments, have taken reckless positions that threaten the sustainability of our companies. in order to combat these financial abuses, the report provides for, inter alia, the extension of shareholder and stakeholder participation in corporate governance. the directive also calls for greater transparency between companies and investors. we believe that these measures are in the right direction. we regret, however, that they do not go further, because it is naive to think that this project will lead to better regulation of the international financial system. only a large-scale joint project to tax financial transactions will limit stock market speculation and encourage shareholders to invest in long-term assets.
mr president, this text aims to replace financial capitalism with responsible capitalism. the aim is to encourage investors to hold their shares longer and to divert them from the temptation of short-term profits. to this end, the text seeks in particular to identify the shareholders. the identification of shareholders is a good thing: it will lead to the establishment in each company of a list of shareholders for the sake of transparency. however, care should be taken to ensure that the consultation of this list does not entail excessive costs. the text also seeks to reward shareholders who keep their shares for more than two years by allowing states to give them a double voting right. this right is a good idea, whether the beneficiaries are the state or the employees of the company. it will prevent foreign companies from taking over. the double voting system, if it is designed in this way, will be an instrument of a kind of economic patriotism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one word to welcome this report: bravo! i would like to congratulate mr cofferati on his excellent work on this directive on shareholder rights. it has made it a real text of progress in encouraging long-term investment and transparency in corporate governance. the introduction of country-by-country reporting will make it possible to detect tax optimisation schemes. multinational companies will now have to declare openly the taxes paid in each country in which they operate - including tax havens - so that citizens and authorities can know where they actually pay their taxes, despite the temptation among our colleagues on the right in this house to remove these transparency measures. if we want to take the luxleaks scandal seriously, if we want to support smes, the first job creators who pay taxes, if we want to prevent large companies from embezzling billions through tax optimization, we must support these transparency measures. i hope that we can count on a large majority in this house tomorrow to support these provisions which we, the socialists and democrats of europe, have brought forward. i hope that this assembly will show that it has understood the expectations of our fellow citizens and that it will send a clear message to the citizens, to the member states and also to the commission.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, madam vice-president, the european union has shown its commitment to the proposals and recommendations of the kyoto protocol by setting up a market for greenhouse gas emission allowances. this mechanism was to allow a gradual increase in the price of co2 and thus initiate a transformation of our economy. unfortunately, the forecasts were contradicted by reality, once again, as prices collapsed. the creation of a market stability reserve is only a palliative for a system that reproduces market failures. the real debate should have been about the system of trading of allowances and the regulation of emissions. the countries of the union have already made considerable efforts in this area, while the developing countries are polluting more and more, and will soon catch up with the countries of the north. the kyoto system is failing. our industries and our competitiveness suffer the consequences. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". yes, mr federley, but how can we defend a system where the biggest polluters are china and the united states, if we ignore the binding targets? it is a burden on our industries. so we're at a disadvantage. that is why we must be economically efficient and environmentally realistic.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, ivo belet, and all those who helped him, on reaching agreement on 5 may on the creation of the market stability reserve of the ems, which should encourage companies to invest in low-carbon technologies, while allowing them to remain competitive on the international scene. this reserve, as proposed today, takes into account the concerns of sectors that are exposed to co2 leakage. this is very important. we will be very careful, commissioner. we will continue this work in the revision of the eqs directive which will be published next week. some companies have already made enormous efforts: they have halved their co2 emissions in the last 30 years and now they know they cannot go any further because they do not have the right technologies and have made all the necessary efforts. to force them to be more ambitious would be to put them in a very difficult position - i am thinking particularly of the steel sector. we also wanted to set aside an innovation fund within the epp group for the auctioning of emission allowances. i welcome the commission's commitment to create such a fund of eur 50 million. it's certainly too weak, but it's a start and it will at least have the merit of existing. it is a concrete way of supporting the technologies of the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear to everyone that the emissions trading system is not working. but rather than calling it into question, the technocrats, so dear to mr schulz, prefer to create a reserve of stability for the ems market in order to compensate for this proven dysfunction. this derogation from the principle of market self-regulation, to which europeans are usually very attached, thus appears to be a terrible admission of failure. but for our industries, this solution is tantamount to the creation of a new indirect tax, and it will be all the more damaging to them since their non-european competitors are not subject to it. this system, in fact, only benefits speculators, who unscrupulously use the ecological pretext of reducing co2 emissions to make pollution a market value like any other. so it should come as no surprise that high-level crooks are taking advantage of this flawed system you have set up. this is what a group of rogue businessmen seem to have done, with a massive fraud estimated at over $5 billion. it was the votes of the national front and its allies in the committee on industry, research and energy that made it possible to defeat the tajani report. you can now count on the votes of the europe of nations and freedoms group to vote against the belet report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the european parliament's rapporteur on cop 21, i would like to thank you, commissioner arias cañete, for the creation of this market stability reserve for the ems, which we will be approving tomorrow during the vote in plenary. it will indeed make it possible to absorb the surplus of quotas and gradually restore confidence in this european instrument. but by cop 21 in paris on 21 december 2015, and quickly, a genuine reform of the co2 trading system is needed to create an independent market authority for the ets and to set quantified targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, at eu and national level. this tool will enable us, commissioner, to strengthen the international credibility of the european union in the fight against climate change. this is a great prospect for the cop21 next december.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr fernandes, who has been able to establish genuine consultation with the various committees in preparation for this trilogue. the committee on budgets will be dealing with this matter on 14 july. i would like to recall a number of priorities in this negotiation. firstly, i believe that we need at least budgetary stability, particularly in agriculture. it is good to set up the european fund for strategic investments, but it is also a pity to draw on budgetary lines. i think we must protect these budget lines, and of course those relating to agriculture. i also think it is imperative to maintain the crisis reserve, because agriculture will unfortunately be faced with recurrent crises, whether it be the russian crisis we are experiencing today, the looming milk crisis or the crisis caused by various agricultural predators. we must be very vigilant on these matters and we must absolutely maintain this reserve for crises. we must also be able to use the margin under ceiling and to finance a number of programmes, such as the school milk scheme. agriculture is indeed an essential element, as it is the most integrated policy of the european union. this should not prevent us from being extremely attentive to other policies. i am thinking in particular of heading 1b on the structural funds - this has already been mentioned - and the youth guarantee, which is very important for the future of the union. we must be able to guarantee these funds. you also know that the issue of migration has been debated for a long time. we must finance these immigrants or rather find a solution to this problem. finally, we must be very careful about the imbalance between payment appropriations and commitment appropriations, and we will be very vigilant about this in the committee on budgets.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the draft budget for 2016 reflects the european union's attitude: 'do as i say, not as i do'. the administrative expenditure is therefore to be increased by 2.2% and that of parliament by 2.4%. the commission is not left behind, since expenditure on staff remuneration and on the pensions of its officials is expected to increase by 2% and 5.4% respectively. brussels should first apply austerity to itself before administering it to others. in the meantime, domestic demand in the member states continues to be squeezed in an absurd way, and things will not be better with the juncker plan, which is being awaited as the messiah by the europeanists' cradle-child. but the european union is not stopping at such a bad path. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the countries of central and eastern europe, including the european union, to make the necessary adjustments to the financial perspective. the solidarity of the europeanists has a good back. the last joke was that the appropriations for democracy and human rights would increase by 2%, while the social democrat martin schulz wanted to end the era of syriza and replace it with a technocratic and anti-democratic government.
mr president, commissioner, forgive me, but this is a very special day. commissioner, you may think i am being ill-tempered, but this delay in the implementation of the shared management programmes is timely in relieving the burden of our unpaid bills. for the 2016 budget, the commission finally has - at least it seems to have - the necessary room for manoeuvre to propose a drastic reduction in these bills to €2 billion. two questions remain, however. firstly, what about the attitude of the member states? will the council finally agree to settle its debts, because unfortunately, as we see year after year, the heads of state and government do not always show a sense of responsibility, respect for their word and even solidarity? secondly, there is still a gap of almost eur 10 billion between payments and commitments. this lag does not bode well for the end of the programming period, because, as we know, the plan for resolving the payment crisis is not a trick, but an accounting loophole, while the structural problem of the union's budget remains the same. the accumulation of unpaid invoices at the end of the programming period is also a way for member states to save money on the european budget. the model of the multiannual financial framework itself is outdated and the model for financing the budget is opaque. all this is detrimental to the union! today we are debating this subject, but we are fully aware of the limitations of this exercise. the budget is increasing, but there is only a margin of 2 billion euros, as if the union did not need any investment. this budget focuses on the priority issues and i welcome that, but we are far from the real needs of the union. our proposal, for example, does not provide a penny to help the 5 million unemployed young people in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank our colleague mr fernandes for his work. i am pleased to see that the appropriations requested in the draft budget are in line with the forecasts we have included in the regulation on the european maritime and fisheries fund. the control and data collection, the modernisation of the fleet and the adaptation to the landing obligation are extremely important points. the emff concentrates the vast majority of available appropriations in our field of activity. as you know, it is very important for the committee on fisheries that the appropriations allow for the proper implementation of this common policy. in the budget for fisheries and maritime affairs, i regret to note that the appropriations available for international agreements and compulsory contributions to fisheries organisations have almost stagnated. i can only regret it. the common fisheries policy must achieve the objectives set by the reform, in particular the objective of maximum sustainable yield, by 2015. i am also thinking of fisheries control and data collection, which are essential for the proper application and observance of the rules of the common fisheries policy. i also look forward to the council reading the budget, because i do not want any reduction in relation to the commission's proposal made by mrs georgieva.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, since 2001, the member states of the european union have been immersed in security considerations to the detriment of the protection of fundamental rights. safety is essential. yes, our fellow citizens and all those who live in our territory have a right to it. the fight against terrorism is an absolute necessity, but the concept has yet to be defined, and not just in its so-called jihadist form, which in fact stigmatizes the muslim community as a whole. the european security programme is imbued with this perspective. to combat radicalism, the rise of hatred, we must attack the root of the problem and, in particular, fight against the rise of inequality and change foreign policy. the existing instruments must be evaluated and their shortcomings highlighted the european parliament's resolution contains many advances, and i would like to thank our president, mr claude moraes, in particular for this. but it does not go far enough in terms of the balance between prevention and enforcement, between security and law, in particular in terms of data protection, proportionality, necessity and cybercrime. the risks to freedom of expression exist in the light of the divergences in the member states. the same applies to the european pnr. we can create all the european gas plants we want, they will continue to be illusory, they may be increasingly liberticidal, but they will be useless without real cooperation between the relevant services in the member states, but also within them. i'm not sure our citizens are winning, including in terms of security. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i did not expect a question like this from the socialist group, and i am sorry because i am used to working with some members of this group, but not in this spirit, and not for them to make false lawsuits against me on security and human rights. i have been defending the tunisian people for years and i am a human rights activist. your question is an insult, sir. keep it! i won't even answer it.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, you are issuing employment guidelines which are supposedly compatible with the main political and economic guidelines, which are themselves considered to be of common interest and therefore necessarily coordinated within the council of europe. so you are asking the member states to give up their right to subsidiarity, even though europe has no competence in employment matters. the question is therefore who is doing what in europe in this field. it is indecent to talk about employment policy for the 21st century when today there are almost 24 million unemployed in the european union who are asking you to account for them. your very ambiguous attitude forces one in four young europeans to live in fear of unemployment and impoverishment. whole parts of our economies, whole regions are suffering. the unemployed and the employers are asking you to give back their sovereignty to the people of the member states!
madam president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs agea, on her excellent work, because it helps to moderate a frequent tendency of the commission to believe that jobs can only be created through flexibility, precariousness and competition. the challenge is not simply to create jobs, but to create useful jobs, which pay and protect workers in a decent way so that they can take charge of their own lives. in this respect, the proposed report makes it possible, in particular, to emphasise new indicators (on poverty, on the minimum wage - so important today in the european union - and to combat the segmentation of the labour market, precarious work, underemployment, undeclared work and zero-hour contracts mentioned here. it is also very important that the european parliament can play its full role in the employment issue. that's not the case today. it is very important that the european parliament can propose amendments and give guidelines, even if the national states must of course retain their prerogatives. i would like to conclude by saying that the need for investment in vocational training is very important, but it must never be allowed to obscure the fact that jobs today must be protective and not merely supplier.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr prime minister, you look happy! you are fooling around with mr juncker, and you feel that lightness as if it were a matter of casualness. the luxembourg presidency opens in a very special atmosphere. a strong smell of failure is in the air. the european union seems to be in a state of clinical death, with insoluble problems, tensions and contradictions piling up. the europe of peace has become the europe of debt war, of economic war, where the president of the european parliament calls for the overthrow of democratic governments and their replacement by technocratic governments, the europe of threats, of permanent blackmail, of unemployment, of course, and of poverty. the euro crisis is starting again and taking a political turn, with people starting to say no to your hopeless hyper-austerity policies. in the face of the wrath of the people, no dam will stand, you must know, your worst nightmare is coming true. the people you've been zapping are in revolt. the crisis of illegal immigration is unprecedented. you have no choice but to tell us that this is a good thing. it makes perfect sense, since this crisis is the fruit of your ideology. the vacuum pumps of immigration, which are the almost systematic reception of illegal immigrants and the social benefits granted to them, are running at full speed. this mirage is tempting and tempting more and more people who dream of a better economic future, more and more illegal immigrants supported by economies that are already exhausted, more and more deaths off our coasts, attracted by this mirage. let us not talk about your policy of almost permanent interference in the countries of the middle east, which causes the destruction of states and allows the development and strengthening of the islamic state. so you have become the facilitators, by your action, of the worst violations of human rights, the very human rights that you are fighting - oh, only with words, of course - in the european institutions. the eu software is no longer working. it is high time to abandon this ideology, for the sake of our peoples, to finally solve these major problems. therefore, be ye clear, be clear, for this is the hope of the nations.
in writing. a new rotating presidency opens with luxembourg and it opens with a whiff of failure. europe is on the verge of bankruptcy, moral, political and economic bankruptcy, and this fact is now becoming clear, no one can deny it any longer! the euro crisis is starting again and is taking a political turn with the people starting to say no to the ultra-liberal policies advocated by brussels and angela merkel. the migrant crisis is also present and is the result of your ideologies which want ever fewer borders and ever more "living together". it is clear that as successive presidencies go by, nothing changes and the luxembourg presidency now following the latvian one will do no better. moreover, mr bettel and his commission counterpart mr juncker share the same ideas and the same political vision, only membership of a national or european party changes the situation... the eu software is no longer working, the people are waking up and it is urgent to break with these federalist policies which are killing our competitiveness, our jobs and sacrificing thousands of europeans on the altar of globalisation and finance.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr tsipras, we have radically different positions on a whole range of issues. it is a fact, but we share the desire to give the people a voice against the europeanist and technocratic dictatorship, and so we were very legitimately pleased with the organisation of the referendum. the greek referendum on austerity marks the return of politics in its noblest sense, within a european union often reduced to technocratic attitudes. the european institutions - and this is perhaps a positive point - have shown their true face: horror! they tried everything to win this referendum. there were multiple moral pressures. the austerityists predicted disaster if the answer was "no". we know this, the french people, because we experienced the same thing when we campaigned for the european constitution. the president of parliament, who is here, has even dared to call for the overthrow of your government, mr tsipras, which was legitimately elected by the people, and for a government of technocrats to replace it. the eurozone countries tried in vain to prevent the imf report on greece's debt from being published on thursday. the report, it must be admitted, echoed your arguments and stated that greece cannot repay its debt because it is unsustainable and must therefore be renegotiated. finally, the european central bank tried to spread fear by choking the greek banks and causing them to temporarily close. i think this is the first time in history that a central bank has created a crisis out of nothing, in a completely artificial way. but the anger of the greek people at the european policy of hyper-austerity was such that all the manoeuvres were swept away by popular fervour. the greek people, despite the threats, have rejected the hopeless and unpromising path of the european union. what people would have accepted for five years what the greek people experienced, for god's sake? who would have accepted that? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. do you agree with that? so campaign by promising your respective peoples 25% lower wages and 25% lower pensions! campaign by proposing to your people the explosion of infant mortality, the tripling of unemployment! you have to be brave! take your positions! that's not what you do when you're campaigning. (applause) i would like to thank mr tsipras, the euro and austerity are siamese brothers. this is reality. you cannot get your people out of austerity if you do not let them out of the euro. i think that greece, in agreement with the european institutions and in concert, must quietly break out of this iron jaw that the euro represents for all the countries of the south. all the peoples of europe would then have their eyes on greece and would be able to see that the exit from the euro does indeed allow renewal and the return of sustainable growth. that is what mr krugman, the nobel prize winner in economics, said. what you fear, ladies and gentlemen of the european institutions, is not that greece will go bankrupt, what you fear is that greece, by leaving the euro, will show that we can do better without the euro than with it. the veil is ripping. the euro is not irreversible. that is what you have been telling us for years: 'the euro is forever'. no, the euro is not forever. the euro is not irreversible. the first crisis of the euro was a financial one and was stopped by the ecb in 2012. the second crisis is political, i beg your pardon, with people who dare to say "no", and you will not be able to stop this one. after so many mistakes, it is high time to dissolve the euro zone in a concerted way, to stop keeping the euro as a common currency. the economies of the european countries will improve and the tensions between the peoples will finally subside. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
madam president, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, thank you for being with us this morning in this parliament which is the seat of european democracy. the alde group has really wanted this debate to take place and we thank you for being here. i would like to make three proposals to you: the first, mr prime minister, would be to change our method. so far, we've been working behind closed doors. the european council decided without us ever knowing exactly what was going on. for the first time, you are here, in front of us, and i wanted to tell you that there is only one euro, there is no euro for the germans or the french and the euro for the greeks. there is only one euro and there can only be one democracy! we must avoid at all costs any further incitement of people against each other. this method is extremely dangerous. my proposal is to use parliament and, if agreed, to follow up at political level. you know that we have written a report on the troika and that we have tried to hear it. accept a compromise by having a follow-up in this parliament. secondly, the change in procedure cannot prevent us from making substantive efforts. guy verhofstadt went into the details. i want to say to you, as we say in america, "just do it!" you said a lot of very accurate things about tax reform, about the need to move forward. do it, put it into action. the greeks said no, but they want to stay in the eurozone. what would you say yes to? what are you willing to say yes to? are you prepared to say yes to a minimum of rules, to a minimum of keeping your word, to an attitude towards the ecb that reminds everyone that the ecb is the central bank of all europeans and not just the greeks? how to return to loyal cooperation, not insults. there's a lot to be said for reparations from world war ii. the reason we have given up reparations is that we did not want to remake the treaty of versailles and the 2+4 treaty. you can talk to barack obama about it the next time he calls you: it was the americans who wanted to abandon reparations, and mr tusk, who is here, knows very well that it was also the treaty that fixed the borders of germany and poland. we are not touching history, mr tsipras! let's move it forward! let us try to find solutions for the future, not to awaken the corpses of the past! finally, i am chairman of the intergroup on the fight against poverty. take the lead in an initiative to fight poverty across europe. it's not just poor people in greece and rich people elsewhere. there are poor people in germany, there are poor people in finland and there are poor people in france. stand up for them and help fight inequality! poverty knows no boundaries. and respect the poor people whose taxes are used to pay for your relief plans! you said the people's choice must be respected. let us respect the choice of all peoples!
madam president, mr prime minister, the mood is warming, but we must not lose our heads. telling the truth to our people is a condition of appeasement. if we are on the brink of a cliff, it is because those who say today that they will not pay for greece have chosen to turn a blind eye to the actions of the former greek governments. yes, we will have to pay for imposing the purchase of our warships rather than the fight against tax evasion. the only question is whether we want to lose everything, namely the loans to greece and the european spirit, or whether we want to save the furniture and give ourselves a chance to continue together in the euro area. mr tsipras, even though we do not agree on everything, i thank you for holding out. you are right to ask for the european debt issue to be settled. to get out of the crisis on top, mrs merkel must stop playing with fire and mr hollande must wake up from his slumber. the threat is not mr tsipras. the threat is the far right, which is already delighted to see us weakening europe. our national leaders have until sunday to become european leaders. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, the truth has been hidden from the greek people too often. greece is bad, very bad. its underground economy has become totally trivial and its debt level is unsustainable. but enough of the games, mr tsipras, we must tell the truth! you did not want to trust president juncker, who, with great humanity, has not stopped reaching out to the greeks. it is not austerity that is being asked of you, but simply to bring order to your country. ideology has no place at the negotiating table. the dialogue must not be broken but it must be realistic. you want to play the big democrats, but there are democrats in all the other euro zone member states, and the citizens no longer want to finance greece at a loss. what can be said of the spanish, portuguese, irish and latvian peoples who never blamed europe for all its ills but who did make their own reforms and who are now finally reaping the benefits of their efforts? what can we say to the european citizens who are even poorer than the greeks? they don't want to pay for greek laxity anymore. it is not europe, it is not the creditors who will decide whether or not greece leaves the euro area. greece itself will be de facto outside the euro area if it does not agree to the necessary reforms. your referendum, mr tsipras, was a sham, and once again you did not tell the truth. your government is now in a deadlock, and you should know that european solidarity is not unilateral, it has counterparts, and we are awaiting your concrete, reasonable proposals to reduce your public deficit, to fight corruption, privilege and tax evasion. you have an obligation to deliver results today, yes greece has its rightful place in the european union but stop playing with fire. europe will not be your scapegoat forever.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i thank you for saying here that we are all responsible for the crisis and that we must all find a solution together. mr tsipras, i thank you for being here, where the heart of european democracy beats. you are carrying a strong message, born of a double legitimacy against austerity. your opponents today are forced to recognize how your country is being eaten up by the vile behavior of the governments that preceded you and that we must now face together. you are here demonstrating that the community method may be the way to overcome certain national egoisms and to recover what is at the heart of europe, namely solidarity. it is this that must enable us to take the final steps, those that must lead us to that honourable compromise to which you have said you aspire. it is the community which must enable us to reach this comprehensive, lasting and reliable agreement. it is the one which must enable us to deal honestly with the question of debt, which everyone here knows is unsustainable and which is one of those subjects which we tend to put under the carpet. it is the one that must enable us to mobilise all europeans so that you can fight the battle of tax evasion with countries outside the european union. so, mr tsipras, we are waiting for you. we are at your disposal and i hope that today's debate has given you some inspiration to put forward the concrete proposals that you have to put on the table and that we are waiting for. have a good one! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, our debate has naturally focused on the situation in greece and the euro area. more precisely, we exchanged, we confronted on the only two issues that matter. what direction do we want to give the european union? what do we do together and how do we do it? i may be the only one to do so, but i would like to return to the conclusions of the june council on the migration issue. you will see that they generate the same type of questions and this also applies to greece. in the face of such an acute crisis situation, which affects hundreds of thousands of people, are we able to make a common analysis? are we able to overcome our national egos and are we able to propose solutions? and, above all, what common political will and solidarity are we putting into this? all member states are committed to agreeing on a distribution of asylum seekers and refugees by the end of july. even if the principles seem to be well known, it is a game of tricks being played, since the details are unclear. no mandatory allocation mechanism, no allocation criteria defined by the commission. the council wants to experiment with a new concept, that of variable geometry generosity. at the end of the addition, i'm not sure that this count, and it's a bit sordid, will be good. with this commitment the council may be taking a big step, but our europe is taking a very small one, because it is a return to national egoism, and we know that this attitude is not responsible.
mr president, we are definitely having some problems of expression between ourselves on this subject. when groups table compromise amendments after the deadline for tabling them, they must be approved by parliament before they can be voted on. this is the first recall. the second recall is based on rule 174 (2), which says very clearly: 'if two or more mutually exclusive amendments apply to the same part of the text, the one which deviates the most from the original text shall have priority and shall be put to the vote first'. unfortunately, we have seen in the course of several votes that this basic text is not being respected and that, in essence, the respect of the logical order provided for in the rules of procedure is at the discretion of the president. therefore, mr president, your role is to facilitate the work of parliament, not to prevent the political expression of members or political groups. i therefore ask you to respect parliament's rules of procedure, which must not become the schulz rules of procedure.
mr president, there are at least three causes of terrorism which depend on us. the first is the destruction or attempted destruction of secular regimes, which were authoritarian, but which contained the growth of islamic radicalism. i am talking about iraq, libya and even syria. this has been done by abject means, by diplomatic manipulation, by a war of destruction, by a ruthless blockade which has aroused against the west an insatiable hatred of which we have no idea. secondly, it is the ignorance of the aggressive aspects of a religion, many of whose followers consider war to be a legitimate means of extending their community and that against what they call the infidels, including the civilian population, all means are good, even the most cruel. thirdly, there is the massive, deliberate and uncontrolled immigration from muslim countries, which is generating a youth that has been uprooted, confronted by our ageing european societies, which have renounced their faith, their roots and their ideals. their program is one of triumphant materialism and the promotion of sexual deviance, and they are continually regretting what they have been, instead of exalting the true values of their past civilization. terrorism feeds on this soil, and european leaders are not all terrorists, but they have been, at the very least, unwitting accomplices.
the question is "blue cardboard". i thank you, mr president, for accepting this blue card. you have indicated, citing the example of the attacks in tunisia and france, that it was necessary - and i quote you - to 'stand up against terrorism or to conclude an agreement against terrorism'. but apart from the particular case of the pnr you mentioned, you do not propose anything concrete. i am disturbed because i do not believe at all in the effectiveness of the pnr, this system of air passenger control, in the fight against terrorism. i think he's out of line. do you have any other concrete solutions to combat terrorism?
mr president, isère, tunisia, kuwait and somalia have been struck by terrorist violence in a matter of hours. although there is no evidence that these actions are coordinated, the horror of these massacres is multiplied by their simultaneity. in this time of heavy threats, we must keep in mind the lessons of previous attacks. it is by rejecting psychosis and by proclaiming national, european and international unity that we will combat this unprecedented phenomenon. resilience comes and goes through responsibility and coming together. the phenomenon of terrorism is a very complex one, since it is true that the causes are geopolitical, social, economic and even psychological. these multiple causes therefore call for a global solution. the unprecedented and evolving nature of the current crisis requires an upgrade of the european security and judicial systems. yes, it also requires new thinking and tools adapted to the media and digital jihad, which allows terrorists to reach every point of the national, european and international territory. yes, it requires an offensive against the financial flows that fuel the fight against terrorism. yes, it makes it imperative to make full use of the existing instruments to prevent the movement of jihadists inside and outside the schengen area. but we can't just be all repressive. any solution also requires measures to prevent radicalisation before it leads to violence. inequality, marginalisation, social exclusion and lack of access to quality education are all factors that can contribute to radicalisation. the commission has rightly stated this in its european security programme. education, youth participation, interfaith dialogue and employment and social inclusion have a key role to play in preventing radicalisation.
mr president, in the face of the terrorist threat, we must unite not just with words but with tools and actions. we must do this to protect our values and our citizens and to prevent these abominable acts that we see, that we experience and that are plaguing our societies. we must also be very firm against terrorists, because that is the strength of our democracies. the prevention of radicalisation, the monitoring of the networks which are used by terrorists for their malignant propaganda, especially against young people, and the fight against arms trafficking must be our priorities. i welcome the comments made by the minister representing the presidency. but we must join forces in improving the coordination of information exchange. it is necessary to increase the number of such exchanges of information and, above all, to make them compulsory by optimising europol and creating a genuine european pnr which becomes an effective tool. we also need to reform the schengen information system to make it mandatory, for example, to alert persons suspected of terrorism and to share these reports. it is a matter of the common security policy which our fellow citizens in europe are calling for.
in writing. terrorism knows no borders. the recent attacks in tunisia and france have once again demonstrated this. the best way to combat this complex and global phenomenon is through international cooperation, which requires that the european union can speak with one voice. this struggle must be fought on the terrain of ideas. to weaken terrorist networks, our best weapons are what they fear most: education and critical thinking. these groups have demonstrated that they are well versed in the new communication strategies offered by the internet and social networks. states must therefore first use new technologies to adapt their responses and thus effectively disseminate counter-arguments to terrorist ideas. the effective fight against terrorism also requires more resources to be devoted to preventing radicalisation, while achieving an agreement on the european pnr, to prevent european fighters from joining the islamic state group. this fight must be fought in the preservation of our democracies, our values and our freedoms, or it will be the victory of those we fight.
on behalf of the alde group. commissioner, we all say the same thing and that is quite natural. in the end, if terrorists have struck tunisia twice in three months - at the bardo museum and in sousse - it is because the young tunisian democracy is doing well and the democratic transition is going well. that's what terrorists are trying to do. of course, this means that our european union must be present alongside the tunisians and alongside tunisia in an even more important way than in the past. we must be present in terms of security, as you said, in terms of management, for example, and border control with libya. this is obvious. we must be present on the question of the flow of migration. we must manage the tunisian and european migration flows with them. we must also be present economically. you said we'd get some funds and give what we had to give. it is also necessary to contribute to the creation of long-term projects. we're going to have a partnership agreement because we're going to develop trade relations. it is very important that this be done for the benefit of tunisia, by preserving sectors which are vital to it, such as certain sectors of services or agriculture. in any case, it is absolutely clear that our parliament is telling you that europe must now answer. she must be on the side of tunisia and the tunisians. this is not negotiable for us.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the horror has struck again in tunisia, in sousse, three months after the attack in the bardo. i join in the condolences already expressed. the target of tourist destinations is emblematic in this small country of 10 million inhabitants for which tourism is a real lung: 14% of national employment depends on it. it is also emblematic, because tunisia, where the arab spring began, has continued its democratic transition at all costs. the terrorists want to stop it at any cost. they don't just knock. so our solidarity should be unfailing. far from it! tunisia needs our help in the fight against terrorism, but we must be careful not to jeopardize the fragile democratic gains of the revolution and, above all, we must give massive support to its economy to give its young people prospects. so far, tunisia has received too little, even so-called aid, mostly in the form of loans, which have only increased its debt. the social crisis is deepening, fueling despair. the borders remain closed. it is time to rise to the occasion and to negotiate free trade and mobility agreements on a new basis. we must tackle the question of debt restructuring, or even - why not? - its moratorium, develop regional cooperation for the benefit of the poorer regions, and establish a real partnership in the interest of the tunisian people. the reforms requested cannot be guided by ever greater liberalization for the benefit of european enterprises in the first place. so yes, we must help tunisia, it must be a priority, there is urgency.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, our thoughts are of course with the victims of the recent attacks in tunisia. i would like to welcome the decisions taken by tunisian president essebsi, who, even before declaring a state of emergency last saturday, ordered the closure of no less than 80 salafist mosques. may our governments follow his example. since the 2011 revolution, the radical preaching banned by ben ali has been reintroduced, mainly targeting the personal status code which, imposed by bourguiba and then reinforced by ben ali, allows tunisian women to be full citizens. more generally, even beyond the terrible attacks that struck it on 18 march and 26 june, it should be remembered that tunisia is now the country that supplies the largest contingent of jihadists to the islamist factions that are currently raging in syria, iraq and libya. in algeria, during the in amenas hostage crisis, the terrorist commando included at least 11 tunisians, and tunisian citizens are still the core of the islamic state in libya. in tunisia itself, since 2012, islamists have held the maquis in the region of mount chaambi. however, despite the recovery of the tunisian state, the dismantling of its security apparatus does not bode well. meanwhile, ennahda is appealing. the islamist party has suffered a slight electoral setback, but rached ghannouchi and his followers remain in ambush. when i went to observe the parliamentary elections last october, i was able to speak with the main political leaders of tunisia. ennahdha has wisely anticipated its retreat and, as part of a long-term strategy, this islamist party continues its penetration of the whole social fabric, on the model of the muslim brotherhood. the maintenance of secularism in tunisia is therefore more precarious than ever. european politicians have been very foolish in celebrating the deposition of ben ali, even though the secular arab regimes are the only ones capable of containing the rise of islamism.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tunisia is once again subjected to the horror of this act of terrorism. we must reaffirm our message of solidarity with tunisians. at the same time, the debate must be an opportunity to ask ourselves what we can do in practice to support our neighbour, tunisia. i believe, commissioner, that eubam libya must first be allowed to return to libya. i believe that this would be a first step towards tunisia ceasing to be the buffer state for the failed state that is libya. the destabilizing proximity of this country is tunisia's major problem. we must then finance tunisia even more strongly, as our colleague mr panzeri has reminded us. we must, in our new european neighbourhood policy, ensure that our funding is actually much higher. these are the two lines we must follow, commissioner, in order to make this act of solidarity, but also to act in favour of tunisia.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only welcome the recent diplomatic rapprochement between the european union and cuba. the embargoes and isolation policies of countries considered as adversaries or enemies have always proved ineffective and even harmful. however, i regret that it took until the united states began to change its attitude towards cuba, after decades of a severe embargo with dramatic consequences for the cuban economy and population, for the european union to decide to do the same. how can the union then claim to have an independent foreign policy when, once again, it is merely acting as a vassal of the united states? finally, i hope that this diplomatic warm-up will not come at the expense of honesty and truth. since coming to power in 2008, raul castro has slightly eased the communist regime's yoke on the population. but this must not make us forget the terrible political repression suffered by the cuban people for more than 50 years, nor the tens of millions of deaths, almost 100 million worldwide, caused by communism. i think we all hope for that better world, which one of my colleagues from the epp spoke about earlier. but this hope must not be a duty of obligatory remembrance to whole generations who were sacrificed on the altar of that murderous and dictatorial ideology which was communism.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, yemen is indeed today the epitome of most of the tensions and rivalries in the middle east. the persian gulf could lose its geostrategic balance, as you have pointed out. the gulf imbalances could also have repercussions on the whole of the middle east and on the countries near the gulf of aden. who can deny that this destabilization will have an effect on our own economic, security or cultural situation? the european union cannot therefore ignore what is happening in this country, which is distant and not very well known - as i have seen on many occasions - because it can also have an impact on us. today, saudi arabia, along with eight arab countries, bahrain, egypt, jordan, kuwait, morocco, qatar, sudan and the uae, supported by the western community, are for the first time conducting a joint military operation against the houthi rebels and the islamic state group. it is worth noting that this is the first time that these countries, which often have rivalries among themselves, have now come together in the same action. however, we are well aware, as you are, that military action cannot be sufficient to restore the long-term national, political and security balance so essential to regional stability. we must not forget that the gulf countries are our main allies in the fight against the islamic state group and against terrorism. i therefore ask you the following question: what is the european union doing, on its own, to help restore stability to yemen? it is not just a matter of supporting this or that initiative. because we are not suspected of having financial or other interests in the region, we have a possibility to act with the parties. what is the european union also doing to effectively support the civilian populations who are the first victims of any armed conflict? do you also intend to take initiatives to improve the situation of women in this country, which is not often mentioned and which has probably the most backward status in the world?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i cannot help being polite to mr vajgl. national selfishness is becoming more and more acute. the gap between good talk and bad practice is growing, not to mention the double standard, double standards based on political allegiances and geostrategic interests. how many of the 60 million refugees you mentioned earlier have the european union taken in, commissioner? what good is this report if the member states, or even the union itself, negotiate agreements, trade and sell arms in defiance of the clauses on 'democracy' and 'human rights', including with the worst dictatorships in the world? i am thinking in particular of the countries of the horn of africa, eritrea and sudan, but also of the gulf countries and egypt. it's the opposite of the need to act against the root of evil you were talking about. how can this report also ignore economic and social rights, when inequalities are growing all over the world? this annual exercise is increasingly disconnected from real policies and serves as a justification for them. instead of promoting the universality of human rights, we are increasingly playing the game of the clash of civilizations. this is a tragedy for "living together" here and elsewhere, and for human rights everywhere.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, we have been talking all afternoon about issues such as yemen or human rights, and we could also have talked about the israeli-palestinian conflict, all of which are at the heart of the report on stability in the middle east and north africa (mena) region. this report is a bit lengthy, but it is in line with the commission's desire to give a strategic direction to european action in this region. we have had to go through all the different subjects in this report: syria, libya, iraq, yemen, tunisia, the fight against the islamic state group. at the same time, we have not sought to draw a clear and long-term strategic line from the accumulation of individual cases. the principles we have adopted in this report are first and foremost principles of responsibility. there would be nothing worse for us in the european parliament than to divide ourselves by taking up this challenge, when our south is already in the state we see and our imperfection has been proven. so we have been constantly trying to listen to each other and find a consensus. in this respect, i would like to thank very warmly all the fictitious rapporteurs, mrs mănescu for the ppe, mr nart for the liberals, mr belder, mr smith for the greens, mr iglesias, mr permuy, mr castaldo, mrs vergiat. whatever the political orientations, apart from those which are frankly anti-european, we have tried to build a common position, responsible and capable of being heard. the following are the principles that have guided us, and you must admit that it has not been easy to define them. first, do not think that the challenge of security has to be reduced to security itself. of course, we must rise to this challenge, and there is no excuse for terrorism, neither economic nor social. it has an ideological basis. we are also assuming our responsibilities in this respect by calling for a strengthening and better coordination of europe's security action. but at the same time - and this is the strategic line we want to adopt - we know that peace and stability can only be restored if we deal with the long-term causes: the democratic and human rights issues, which we have just discussed, the economic and social issues. two of the three parts of the report are devoted to economic and social questions, to the question of democracy and to human rights. this is what allowed us to find a consensus, in a balance where there would not be a single cause, but multifactorial actions. yes, we must intervene on the security question, we must strengthen europe's action, we must give assistance to the states, we must help to guard the borders better, we must of course do everything we can to train those who must provide security on our southern flank and at the same time we must deploy economic and social actions. the second fundamental line of this report is quite new and it structures the whole approach. it is to admit that europe cannot - as it has a tendency to do, as we have heard in previous debates - hope to solve all the problems in syria, iraq and yemen by itself, through a number of invocations or interventions. this report is based on a balance between the desire to have concerted, long-term, coherent action and, at the same time, to rely on the states on the one hand, but also on all the multilateral instruments that exist, especially in the south. in conclusion, madam president, i believe that we have found a strategy on both these aspects and have succeeded in coming together around the idea that europe must be more present in order to take more determined action.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank mr peillon for his report and add some geopolitical elements which i have not read in this document. first of all, the tragedy of the middle east is the result of euro-american policy which destroyed the plans for the modernization of the arab world and which in fact strengthened islam in societies of muslim culture. then this policy reawakened the shia-sunni rift, which turned into a war exacerbated by the strategic competition between iran and saudi arabia. and then there's this islamic state, which has allowed the united states to implement its oil strategy. as early as the summer of 2014, i remind you, colleagues, the price of a barrel of oil plummeted from $105 to $55, at the very moment when the 'islamic state' was putting cheap oil on the world market. this strategy of collapsing the price of oil has directly hit states whose budgets were heavily dependent on the high price of oil, such as iran, venezuela and russia. iran was pushed into negotiations on nuclear energy and, as in the 1980s with reagan and the ussr, russia, which was already under economic sanctions from the european union, suffered the full brunt of the fall of the barrel. these are some geopolitical realities that i invite you to reflect on that go beyond, i think, the wishful thinking that we all share about the future of the middle east. the reality is that the destruction of the middle east has largely served us policy to block the emergence of a multipolar world.
madam president, the instability in the area covered by mr peillon's excellent report is unfortunately not new. but perhaps never has it been so large, never has it been so directly threatening to our own security, and perhaps never has one parameter in one corner of this region had such an impact on the whole region, so that it is extremely complex today, diplomatically, to isolate one crisis in the region from another. this is a completely new challenge. i would like to emphasize three points from this very general observation. the first is to remind all our colleagues that we are not facing a one-off crisis. we are facing a structural crisis, i would even say a tectonic one, which affects all these societies in the near and middle east in a profound way. the security dimension is only the most spectacular part of these sociological, economic and institutional changes. this phenomenon will continue for years, perhaps even decades, and we must act and prepare to act accordingly. secondly, in this type of movement it is unfortunately illusory to hope for developments which are spontaneously virtuous. this is a bit of a flaw in the way we read the arab spring, which was just one episode of these profound changes. egypt will not become sweden overnight. so we must not, in this case, give up our values, not at all, nor our standards, but we must prioritize our priorities and how we value the local people we have to deal with. thirdly, we must also recognize that our means of action are relatively limited, especially if we are acting in a dispersed manner. none of our states, on its own, is in a position to have a decisive impact on the changes in this region. so we have to act collectively, because that will encourage the countries in the region to act collectively, too. these are the main points which i think we should include in our action, which, i repeat, must be long-term.
the rapporteur. mr president, anyone who thinks we can ignore the south is wrong. the problem of stability in the south is also the problem of stability in our own country, and as we have said, the problem of economic, social, human and democratic development in the south will obviously have repercussions in europe. those who dream of making the european union a fortress will be denied by history. it was not like that in the past, it is not like that in the present, it will not be like that in the future. so we have, in our own interest, to worry about the south. in these times of crisis in europe with the greek question, with the council on migrants, there is still an element of optimism in the work we have done, because we have avoided a number of banalities or repetitions. we have tried to build together, and i thank the various fictitious rapporteurs for this, a common strategic vision. of course, europe may be to blame for things, but the instability in the middle east and north africa region is not europe's sole responsibility. and europe is expected. i have heard some say that the european union must have its own policy, but they are the same people who are opposed to a common foreign and security policy. the solution is to have more europe and to accept a common foreign policy. this is not yet the case and it is clear that a number of european countries are playing their own game in this area too. there is no common foreign policy without a common security policy. we have drawn up this report in accordance with our principles and taking account of the many factors we have mentioned. that is why we must support the initiatives of the high representative and the commission. first, more generosity to migrants. what has been done is insufficient. president juncker called him back this morning. he's right. we're not gonna get away with this. secondly, we obviously need more political initiatives and therefore more coherence between us. this report is a modest contribution, but we have risen to the challenge of finding common ground. if we are to act together, we must first think together, be collectively intelligent and define a strategy together. i think the result is rather positive. i am very grateful to all those who have contributed to this work, regardless of their political position.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today's debate is a sign of the european parliament's credible commitment to commemorating the tragic moment in the history of our continent, the genocide of srebrenica twenty years ago. the commission's participation in this debate is a joint effort with parliament, and we are all paying tribute to the victims of the genocide and to all the victims of the war in the territory of bosnia and herzegovina between 1992 and 1995. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. first of all, it was a peace project: the peace union. a peace project that helped to overcome deep divisions in europe after the second world war and after the fall of the berlin wall. a peace project to achieve a better future for ourselves and our children and grandchildren across the continent inside and outside the european union . bosnia and herzegovina and the other countries of the region have a clear european perspective. this is something we have repeatedly stressed - the eu, parliament, the commission, the member states and the council. the commission will spare no effort to help the countries of the western balkans to progress towards the european union, to achieve the conditions and thus to secure a better future for the next generations.
in writing. the official story of the srebrenica massacre is biased and distorted. the violent conflict in the balkans has been used to further an american strategy of demonizing the serbian side exclusively. yet, twenty years later, and as the un prepares to commemorate srebrenica, there is no evidence to establish the responsibility of the bosnian serb minority for the massacre of thousands of bosniaks. moreover, as jean-rené ruez, the head of the srebrenica investigation, acknowledged in february 2001 before a committee of inquiry of the french national assembly, there is no evidence to confirm the existence of a planning of mass executions on ethnic grounds. only a fair recognition of the responsibility of each side will make it possible to achieve lasting reconciliation between the torn peoples of the balkans. that is why the commemoration of srebrenica must no longer be used to stamp out anti-serbs in the name of american interests.
in writing. twenty years after the srebrenica massacre, this event has become a political weapon in the hands of euro-atlanticists to intervene in a sovereign country, which thus violates the dayton agreements and tries to bring the republic of serbia to its knees with the main purpose of reducing russia's influence in the region. through this demonization of the serbs carried out by the euro-atlanticists, the radical islamists spread their doctrine among the bosniaks without any difficulty, thus calling the victims of srebrenica chahîd (martyr for islam). let us remember the murderous terrorist attack of zvornik and the 300 bosnian citizens who went to do jihad in syria! it is high time to stop using the victims of srebrenica as an instrument of euro-atlantic geopolitical interests and to seriously combat islamist radicalisation in the balkans. it is time to work on solutions which will lead to genuine reconciliation between the peoples and improve the economic situation of the people of bosnia and herzegovina.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i welcome this debate, because it should not normally be held, and the environmentalists insisted that it should take place. i believe that the problem is not that of pro- or anti-nuclear positions, but that tomorrow a nuclear accident may occur in europe or elsewhere and that we must protect the population. i would first like to go back to the terms of the report. i think it was a bit of a sloppy job. why would you do that? because there was only one meeting of the fictitious reporters. as my colleague said, there was to be one with the euratom experts, but it was cancelled because the experts were not available. you should also know that when we asked the commission for the names of the experts and their interests, it refused to give them to us. this is the first time this has ever happened! in all health agencies, we have the names of the experts. and then we're told, "oh, but these big experts are going to set the standards for contamination in food". but when we asked experts to examine this file - the report of these famous invisible experts - we found that it contained at least fifteen errors! this paper states that in the event of a nuclear accident, only 10 percent of foodstuffs will be contaminated. i live near a nuclear power plant in the most nuclear-armed country in europe. if there is an accident, all foodstuffs (water, milk, etc.) will be contaminated. when i did the dose calculations, i found that we would be well over the one millisievert ceiling announced by the rapporteur. we have a responsibility as members of the european parliament. we cannot accept the standards proposed. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to vote for rule 56, which will lower the standards by a factor of 10. the population will thus be really protected in the event of a nuclear accident, which may occur today or tomorrow in europe.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this report on the limits of radioactivity in food and feed is not acceptable as it stands. the proposed levels of radioactivity are the same as in 1987, after the chernobyl disaster. the limits proposed by the commission are calculated for an accident occurring more than 1 000 kilometres from the frontiers of europe. this assumption allowed the experts to bet on a low contamination rate of 10%. the rate would be much higher if the accident had occurred in the heart of europe. the protection of the population is therefore not assured. this protection is even paltry when compared with that which is applied in japan. in this country, the limits of radioactivity in food are 8 to 20 times lower than ours. this is the example we must follow in order to better protect our populations. after all, if you want to increase your powers, you have to accept the homework that comes with it. for our part, there are only two possible options. either the european institutions set standards that really ensure our food security, as japan does, or they refuse to do so and in that case the member states must be able to do so for them, under article 36 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. that is the meaning of the amendments tabled by our group.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, you mentioned the experts who have to draw up the standards for contamination in the event of an accident. an association asked the commission for the names of the experts on the euratom treaty. do you think it is normal that these experts have refused to come to the european parliament to discuss their scenarios and that we do not have access to the list of their names? do you think that's normal? you say we should trust the experts, but if these experts are paid by nuclear, how can we trust them? i'd like to hear your opinion on that.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, i would like to say to my colleague that these levels are precisely set to be extremely effective in the event of a nuclear accident. we won't have time to define any more levels. they must guarantee the health of the people in the event of radioactive contamination. they're way too high, contrary to what you're saying.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, this much-discussed report is the result of the collective work of almost all the political groups in this parliament, which also made it possible for it to be adopted in the legal affairs committee by 23 votes to 25, including that of the rapporteur, which is not insignificant. i therefore agree with what mrs comodini and mrs honeyball have said, and i thank them publicly. the result is satisfactory and the text is balanced. the report which will be voted on today is very far from the original text, which would have had the effect of reducing copyright without actually protecting the consumer. what is a consumer protection in which the cultural diversity of the 28 member states has no real legal protection to last? i support all the interesting ideas about the future of copyright and i think we are going back quite a long way, because the level of protection for creators that is necessary for innovation and especially for the powerful european cultural industry has been maintained. i am therefore pleased that the radiance of economic competitiveness on the one hand and the uniqueness of cultural europe on the other have been recognized and even clearly protected. i welcome that this report has also taken a first step towards the sensitive issue of hosting responsibility, because these platforms cannot continue to tell us that they are just highways. their responsibility is becoming more and more salient. we are seeing this clearly now in another area, namely cultural freedom, the security to be protected, and even the fight against financial crime. it is time for the commission and our parliament to look at what i call the three-responsibility rule, which will be discussed, commissioner, when you come back in december. i would also like to take this opportunity to ask all members to vote against amendment no 3. i would point out, as mrs honeyball and mrs comodini have said, that i naturally agreed to the rapporteur's request to vote against paragraph 46, which was in fact an amendment i had tabled myself. i would like to stress the consensual nature of this document and i really thank you all for your participation.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that good intentions do not necessarily lead to the right policies or legislation. the rapporteur, mrs reda, has undoubtedly shown a great deal of goodwill and personal generosity in tackling this thorny problem of copyright. but she has obviously forgotten some principles that are urgently needed. the protection of culture also means the protection of copyright, which is both the fair remuneration for artistic creation and the protection of the moral rights of artists. i regret that this moral right was never mentioned in the report. it's the moral right of artists that determines everything else. the creator must be able to ensure that his work is not devalued or distorted artistically, politically or ideologically. the panorama exception, which the rapporteur defends at all costs, opens a breach in the protection of this economic and moral right. and if you take away the right of authors to control the exploitation of their work, they have no respect for their own person. contrary to the crazy rumors circulating on the internet, this control does not in any way hinder the possibility for anyone to photograph public works. it merely provides the necessary guarantee that the work will not be exploited for obscene, political or ideological purposes by unwise or malicious persons. we must therefore reject this so-called panorama exception and vote against amendment no 3 and paragraph 46. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the reda report sought to establish freedom of panorama, that is to say the right to freely distribute photographs of monuments without the permission of the architects concerned and without copyright. fortunately, an amendment was made to this disastrous initiative which did not sufficiently protect the copyright of architects. this will allow each state to strike a more reasonable balance between copyright and the rights of photographers. france, for example, does not recognize freedom of panorama, but has a much more subtle system which it calls the "accessory theory". this theory protects the copyright of architects, but still allows the free distribution of photographs of a building when it is only an accessory element of a larger landscape. the amendment to the reda report will enable france to maintain this fine system, and i am delighted about that.
madam president, while it is clear that new rules must be introduced, this battle over copyright is perfectly in line with the opposition between the defenders of the nation and the globalists. the european union is seeking to do away with national particularities in favour of a global trade without rules. breaking down national barriers to copyright and data protection regulation, as jean-claude juncker has called for, always means fewer controls and restrictions. this would, of course, benefit the large multinationals, such as google or amazon, which are already eager to avoid paying taxes in europe. i had already asked the commissioner for culture about the tax practices of video-on-demand platforms. in addition, we will need to find a framework that protects creators and small authors while allowing free expression on the internet. indeed, intellectual property has become a political weapon and it is under this pretext that we can ask internet users to remove critical videos. this development must not pave the way for a union without frontiers and must leave the member states free to continue to legislate in favour of respecting, preserving and promoting their identity. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, first of all, i am opposed to any harmonisation in the field of copyright, if only because of the ambiguity of the term copyright in the english version, whereas the two concepts are the product of different philosophies. the infosoc directive exists, then. this directive did not allow for the harmonisation of copyright. that's good. the work of the mission in france, led by pierre sirinelli, a distinguished law professor, gives a snapshot of what the revision of this directive proposed by my colleague julia reda would entail: the weakening of copyright, which i strongly oppose. secondly, no revision of the e-commerce directive is proposed, which guarantees a very protective regime for internet service providers. we can even speak of irresponsibility. with this draft revision, you risk giving birth, once again, to a dead text to the detriment of the authors. who can predict what the internet will be like in five years? the european union is an obsolete software which produces only floppy disks. we still have evidence of this today.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that i regret that the question of the panorama has so much monopolized the debate, simply because so many untruths have been told. i'm going to make things right again. in no way is this about banning the posting of holiday photos on the internet or elsewhere, but simply about saying that it is not fair that an artist, because he chooses to produce his works in public space, cannot receive a fair remuneration when they are used commercially. the aim of this report was to adapt the issue of culture and copyright to the digital world. indeed, the disruptions induced by digital uses are many: they change the relationship of our citizens to culture, but not only to culture, because they also change the way in which trade and services operate. they even change the way we think about social and work relations today. why special treatment for culture? after all, it is true that culture is of great economic importance: it is the third largest sector of activity in europe, and it represents more than 500 billion in turnover per year, but i reject this purely commercialist view of culture. it also has political, symbolic and humanistic significance. when we talk about barriers, obstacles, impediments and copyright, personally, it goes against my conception of european culture. is it necessary to remind people that there is no culture without an artist, that copyright is a fundamental right and that it is right and good for everyone to be able to make a living from their work? i am pleased that the text which is being proposed, unlike the one which was originally on the table, puts artists back at the centre of the debate, a place they should never have left. our copyright regime allows for a diverse and thriving culture. i hope the commission... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, by voting on this report now after it has been adopted by the committee on legal affairs, we have the opportunity to send a strong message to the commission. we have the opportunity to tell the commission, as it prepares the revision of the copyright directive, that we are in favour of adapting copyright to the digital age, but against its demolition or its re-examination. we have substantially reoriented and rewritten the initial draft report presented to us by mrs reda in the committee on legal affairs, and on this occasion we have reaffirmed and re-affirmed strong priorities and principles: fair remuneration for the work and talent of authors and creators, respect for european cultural diversity, affirmation of the principle of territoriality, the need to make progress on portability - this is perfectly compatible - the need to combat piracy and counterfeiting, which are real scourges, the need to set up a system of liability for platforms, hosts and all intermediaries who are currently in a system of irresponsibility, the need to adapt copyright to the digital age and not to dismantle it, to strengthen it and not to weaken it. all this is possible because the report, as we have strongly amended it in the committee on legal affairs, contains concrete ways of doing this. we are waiting with great interest, commissioner, for the proposal for a revision of the directive that you will present to us, but please know that we will be committed to respecting the principle of intellectual property of artists and creators.
mr president, i would like to inform my colleagues that there are serious flaws in this report. you know that this text concerns the standards for radioactivity in food in the event of a nuclear accident. we invited the experts from euratom, but they did not want to come. we asked the commission to give us the names of the experts and their interests. she replied that it was impossible for her to do so. now, the scenarios are very important and the standards are very high, so i ask you to be very critical about...
in writing. ‒ the economic partnership is not a partnership at all, because the member states would be the big losers while the united states of america would be the main beneficiaries. it would further reduce the economic sovereignty of the member states and create a free trade area which would be clearly unfavourable to the union and its member states' nationals. as an opponent of the transatlantic partnership, i have therefore logically decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the negotiating terms of a ttip because i believe that the way the european institutions are working leads to a deadlock. the handling of the greek crisis is the pathetic manifestation of europe's lack of political leadership. in his day, victor hugo dreamed of developing trade between the united states of america and the united states of europe. in other words, he dreamed of ttip. and i share his dream. but we are still far from the united states of europe. and that is why i am voting against today. the serious situation we are facing calls for clarity.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the resolution on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership because today's vote should have allowed the european parliament to send a strong signal to influence the ongoing negotiations between the commission and the united states. the compromise amendment on the isds mechanism was vague as to the wording of the rejection of the mechanism. this ambiguity about replacing isds with a new system was not satisfactory. moreover, the resolution did not sufficiently protect both public services and the quality of european technical, social and environmental standards. for these various reasons, i voted against this report, which leaves too much uncertainty about the demands of the european parliament in the negotiations for a possible transatlantic free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ one of the stated aims of the ptci promoters is to 'converge' eu and us regulations. the united states refuses to ratify the major conventions on labour, the kyoto protocol on global warming, the convention on biological diversity, the unesco conventions on cultural diversity, and so on. in almost all cases, their regulations are less restrictive than those in europe. in the case of 'convergence', there is every indication that the us - which, unlike the eu, is fiercely protective of its interests - will seek to impose its own regulations on 'partners' whom it tends to regard as its vassals. there is no question of accepting the low-cost products of north american agribusiness: hormone-laced beef, lactic acid-sprayed meat carcasses, bleached poultry, meat with ractopamine hydrochloride, gmos, animals fed animal flour, products containing pesticides and other toxic additives that are banned in our country. the lange report does not set any red lines, no boundaries; it even validates the odious investor-state dispute settlement (isds) mechanism, the so-called "arbitration tribunals" that will allow american firms to subject our states to their diktat.
in writing. the lange report on the transatlantic treaty is a scandalous attack on democracy and demonstrates the non-representativeness of this parliament. while 97% of european citizens expressed concern about ttip, meps decided to ignore it to satisfy obscure interests. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the threat of a trade war. i tabled two motions for resolutions on this treaty, in particular on culture and education and on taking animal welfare into account. i have supported others with my enl colleagues in parliament. this treaty is questionable on several points and this document is a hoax because it does not set any red lines for the european commission on this treaty. it will damage all our french and european agriculture and it does not impose any constraints on the alignment of american standards with european standards. worse, any multinational company can use the dispute settlement mechanism to take legal action against a state if a standard does not suit it. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. at the previous session in strasbourg, president martin schultz tried to prevent meps from voting on amendments opposing the transatlantic treaty by maneuvering. the european peoples and parliamentary representation are waking up. is there any chance the vote won 't be pleasant ? the solution is simple: no voting. a masterful lesson in democracy delivered by elites disconnected from the plight of their people. this transatlantic treaty is dangerous in its very essence and the freedom afforded to the european commission in the framework of its negotiating mandate can only increase my concerns. this text represents a real and serious threat to french agriculture. moreover, we have no guarantee that our standards will be preserved. the alignment of these with north american concepts is unacceptable. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission is currently negotiating with the united states the terms of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the european parliament warns the commission of a number of points which need to be clarified, without expressing any clear opposition to this agreement which we have always opposed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. they call for the possibility for companies to bring cases against member states before a private court to be banned, but they point to the benefits of public international arbitration. they advocate action to increase food transparency and to exclude agricultural imports from third countries from the treaty, without addressing the danger posed by the us agri-food industry to farmers and consumers. they want to fight all forms of dumping but the agreement will lead to social harmonization from below or a sharp increase in our trade deficits in the best case. these recommendations are nothing but a slap in the face because they cannot improve the terms of an agreement whose foundations are harmful to europeans. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted its position on the negotiations for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). as the only institution directly elected by the european citizens, the parliament must play an important role in monitoring the negotiations with the united states. ttip will not be at the expense of european norms and standards. we will not make any concessions on the european union's social, environmental and health acquis. i am also opposed to private arbitration for conflicts between investors and states. we must protect european companies operating in the us market while preserving the right of states to regulate. these red lines will guide my vote on the european parliament's approval of ttip. i voted in favour of this resolution which reminds the commission that the high standards of european standards are not negotiable.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that this text has fully respected the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. the parties should reserve the right to adopt or maintain any measure concerning the protection or promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity in accordance with the relevant articles of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, taking into account the freedom and pluralism of the media irrespective of the technology or distribution platform used, and all this without losing sight of the fact that the mandate given to the european commission by the member states expressly excludes audiovisual services.
in writing. ‒ i have firmly rejected this report which devotes the european parliamentarians' total submission to the opaque negotiations between the commission and the united states on the transatlantic partnership (tpp). the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the report, of course, in line with the globalist ideology, calls for the abolition of all customs duties, thus preventing the protection of our industries, and for the creation of euro-american standards which are destined to become global. we should not forget the famous arbitration tribunals either: after bitter debates, the european parliament has not reversed this possibility which will be given to multinational companies to attack sovereign states with impunity. finally, the european parliament leaves the future of most of our public services uncertain. the elected representatives of the peoples of europe have therefore just said yes to the progressive impoverishment in favour of the globalist ideology.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report sets out the parliament's recommendations to the european commission in the context of the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). at present, no fundamental chapters are closed and the two sides are concluding the first part of the negotiations before addressing the most essential issues. in this context, the european parliament, which has a veto on the final adoption of the agreement, wanted to define its priorities and red lines. i have particularly focused on the agricultural aspect of these recommendations. despite the real economic opportunities for our agriculture that will result from this agreement, i believe that the european agricultural model must be protected. the text of the recommendations takes up this position, namely that our sanitary and phytosanitary standards should not be called into question, that our quality marks and products under pdo and pgi should be fully recognized and that sensitive products should be given special consideration, and that they should be excluded from the negotiations. for these reasons i voted in favour of these recommendations, which i consider to be balanced and realistic, since they do not seek an agreement at any price, but leave the negotiators sufficient room to manoeuvre in order to reach a satisfactory agreement.
in writing. ahead of a new round of negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), it was important that parliament could pass on its recommendations and red lines to the european commission. we must not lose sight of the ambitious objective of creating a large free trade area, which would be a major asset for the european economy. however, caution is needed: liberalisation must serve employment policy, not lead to social dumping. the europeans also want to maintain a high level of requirements in terms of geographical indications and data protection. i supported the compromise that was voted, calling for the isds to be replaced by a mechanism where the notion of arbitration disappears, leaving room for full-fledged judges subject to transparency rules.
in writing. ‒ there are two main reasons for the justified public distrust of this trade agreement. the first is that the peoples have not been involved in the debate and do not know what is happening. i regret that the heads of state or government have given the commission a mandate without first discussing it in their member states. i hope that the national parliaments will have to give their consent to these negotiations in the end. the second is that we are not on equal footing with the americans. take the example of public procurement. in the united states, a large proportion of public procurement is reserved for us smes to promote growth and employment. the americans are quite right to do so at home. but if we want to level the playing field, then we should do the same in our homes. let us face the reasons for many of the doubts and concerns expressed by europeans. until we make progress on these two points, we will not be able to have a satisfactory agreement. that is why i did not approve this resolution.
in writing. ‒ after much discussion in parliament and the postponement of the vote at the previous part-session, mainly due to the disagreements within the s&d group, we finally adopted an important text reminding the negotiators of our red lines. it was imperative to recall that public services and audiovisual services should be excluded from the negotiations, just as it was imperative to recall that we are against lowering our standards and that we want in particular the protection of our agricultural model, the exclusion of sensitive products, the recognition of geographical indications, the need for reciprocal access to public contracts... as for the question of the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism, we categorically reject the mechanism in its present form. we call for the system to be reformed so that it functions as a genuine public court with transparency requirements and an appeal mechanism. it will also have to respect the right of states to regulate what is essential in this area. this agreement could be an opportunity for many of our sectors but we must remain very vigilant and make sure that our red lines are not crossed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). i am opposed to this project in detail and in full. the aim is to subject europe, and therefore france, to the united states. it is unacceptable that the latter should be able to dictate the rules, taking advantage of their collusion with a union which dreams of americanization. trade policy must remain within the jurisdiction of each state, so that it can determine it on its own. if we say yes to cooperation, we are firmly rejecting harmonization. this will only lead to disastrous consequences, including a decline in standards and hygiene, especially in food. refusing to accept this project would mean stopping the union's unacceptable interference in national sovereignty. the commission is ignoring the citizens who have come forward in all the member states to call for an end to this project. voting against it also means reminding the commission that, although it is not elected by the people, it must submit to their will.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am fundamentally opposed to the conclusion of the transatlantic treaty
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report by the european parliament on the negotiations of the transatlantic treaty. once again, the european parliament has chosen to abdicate in favour of the commission, by refusing to set limits on it, even though any trade agreement must be approved by the european parliament before being ratified. the report argues that an agreement with the united states should promote the reindustrialisation of europe by strengthening transatlantic trade. of course, that will not happen, since the transatlantic treaty is designed primarily in the interests of the americans. i would also like to draw the attention of my fellow countrymen to the fact that, in addition to the economy and employment, their health, their way of life and their quality of life will also be affected by this treaty. this will be the case in particular with our agricultural model, which will disappear when it enters into direct competition with american agro-industry, whose standards are much more permissive than ours. the treaty will require a shift from european standards to american standards. factory farms, injections of hormones and antibiotics, chlorinated chickens, roundup spraying on entire fields of gmos: this is what we will have if we let the europeanist wizard apprentices negotiate and sign this treaty.
in writing. ‒ while i am in favour of negotiating an agreement with the united states that would bring the trade rules of our two spaces closer together, and although i believe that such an agreement could have beneficial effects on growth in europe as well as in the united states, i did however wish to abstain from voting on this european parliament resolution on ttip. the negotiations under way rightly raise a lot of suspicions and concerns (concerning the reciprocity of the agreement, the issues of cultural exception, food safety, health standards, protected geographical indications, protection of personal data, etc.) and above all the arbitration mechanism, which i am totally opposed to. i fully share those concerns. at this stage of the procedure, and without knowing what will ultimately happen to this agreement and this arbitration mechanism, i have therefore decided to abstain. however, this resolution contains clear red lines. it is now necessary that the negotiators of this agreement, both on the european and the american side, hear the very strong demands of the european parliament and take them into account.
in writing. i wanted to express my very strong reservations about the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. my position and that of the delegation of the french socialists have been expressed many times and have never changed. one of the red lines concerning the exclusion of an investor/state clause (isds) was not sufficiently explicitly taken up in the lange resolution. i therefore voted against this text because it does not definitively close the door to the introduction of this arbitration mechanism which would risk weakening democratic decisions in favour of private interests.
in writing. ‒ the negotiation of the transatlantic partnership raises many fears, and these are quite natural. meps have a duty to protect the interests of the citizens they represent. they also have a duty to prepare their children for the future. the systematic rejection and lack of perspective that is being used by groups on the far left and far right is not the answer. criticism is easy, action and risk-taking are less so. if we listen to the extreme parties, what do we hear? a no to a europe that maintains its place among the top three economies in the world, a no to a europe that is a motor that spreads its standards, a yes to an isolated europe that disappears from the radar. the other economic blocs are not waiting for europe to join the globalization train. if she doesn't start, the distance will be difficult to catch up. this agreement is an opportunity to put us back in the centre of the table. that's why we have to negotiate. that doesn't mean we can accept everything. this is exactly the message of parliament: protection of our agricultural model, social, health and environmental standards; exclusion of public services, respect for the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this draft resolution on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. the rapporteur, mr lange, is clearly in favour of the negotiations currently under way. we know that europe, and france in particular, would suffer greatly from such a treaty and therefore from the creation of a free trade area. the mandatory setting up of arbitration tribunals will not be carried out in the required transparency, nor will the decisions issued by the latter. this is just one example of the harmful effects of a transatlantic free trade agreement. if some of the amendments were positive, unfortunately they are still too cosmetic or have simply been rejected by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleague bernd lange on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the text was intended to set out parliament's guidelines for these negotiations, recalling in particular the need to preserve european levels of protection of health, the environment and consumers, and the protection of europe's cultural diversity. the text also supports a new approach to investor-state dispute settlement, calling for the isds private arbitration to be replaced by a system based on professional judges, an appeals system and guaranteeing the right of states to legislate. the potential of the agreement for the european economy is finally recalled. even though the conclusion of these negotiations is still a long way off, it was necessary for parliament, which will have a veto on the agreement to be concluded, to make its position on the subject known. this resolution was adopted by a large majority of 436 votes in favour, 241 against and 32 abstentions, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations because, while a transatlantic trade agreement can be a driver of job creation and economic growth in europe, it must be fair and equitable for both sides. in order to achieve a treaty favourable to the european union, we must maintain our red lines and be particularly vigilant about opening up public contracts in the united states to our european companies, whose access is very limited today. the european union must fight to end the current asymmetry which allows american companies very wide access to our european public contracts.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the transatlantic agreement, because it calls for the continuation of negotiations with the united states even though the issues of these negotiations have not been raised and the citizens have not been consulted. the decision whether to continue trade negotiations with the us on the current basis is a civilized one. first of all, it is a geopolitical choice: do we want to be part of a west that is united in this trade agreement? it is a choice of social model: do we want to put our social, environmental, precautionary standards in competition with the american lack of rules? it is a choice of society: are we prepared to abandon popular sovereignty, human rights in favour of a transatlantic business law? instead, this resolution gives a blank check back to the commission, which negotiates, and maintains, the investor-state dispute settlement system, which allows a company to attack a state via a private arbitration system. i therefore regret both this vote and the way in which it was imposed on us by the president of parliament, who clearly influenced its outcome by abusing his prerogatives.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution on ttip is a soft text which sometimes says everything and the opposite, but never sets any red lines for the commission. this text does not call for the abolition of isds arbitration tribunals , but calls, if possible, for an appeal mechanism and a permanent international court (possibly but not necessarily, in the medium term, for disputes to be settled by an international arbitration court with professional judges). the text proposes to exclude services of general interest (such as water, health, social security, education, social services) from the scope of ttip so that states can continue to provide them. for the other public services, it is not clear what will happen (sncf, edf, etc.). the text proposes the establishment of regulatory cooperation between the us and the eu, structured cooperation with the aim of economic efficiency, without prejudice to the powers of us and european legislators (2). the european parliament has been at one with the commission on almost all issues, has drawn almost no red lines on ttip and has only made declarations of intent. i vote against it.
in writing. - i voted against it. there are many unacceptable points in this text, including the desire to abolish customs duties, to facilitate free trade in services, the establishment of regulatory cooperation, which can be harmful in the medium term for the european union, especially in the field of standards. i believe that french agriculture, which is already in a deep crisis, has everything to lose from this kind of agreement. this report does not stress enough the necessary protection that certain sectors of the european economy should have, and as a farmer, i believe that agriculture is one of those sectors that should be protected.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin was strongly opposed to this vote. ttip, tafta, ptci, whatever name you give it, this partnership agreement with the united states is a threat to france. despite the union's fine speeches, this agreement will only have negative consequences for the french: american health, safety, environmental and social standards are far below ours and, in the end, it suggests a leveling-down to "satisfy" our partner. their isds, this arbitration tribunal, will settle disputes between investors without the member states having a say. this text is a long litany of wishful thinking on the part of the european institutions, which cover themselves by proposing a text without any requirements and without any criteria for negotiations. we do not condone such a betrayal of our standards, values and interests.
in writing. ‒ after many twists and turns, meps were finally asked to give their opinion on the lange resolution, which sets out the european parliament's recommendations to the commission in its negotiations with the us authorities on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip/tafta). for weeks now, in the inta committee and in plenary, i have been repeating my credo: to win my support, the resolution should be strong and strictly frame the negotiations. a hollow resolution, on the other hand, would have every chance of allowing the negotiators to free themselves from the opinion of parliament and to distance themselves even further from the legitimate expectations of civil society. despite the introduction of strong safeguards in several areas (such as the protection of workers' rights, the environment and geographical indications), the resolution remained too ambiguous and insufficiently firm on points which i do not consider to be negotiable: the unconditional, clear, sharp and precise rejection of private arbitration (isds/rdie), the protection of public services and the right of states to legislate in areas of general interest. regrettably, the parliamentarians, representatives of the european citizens, were not able to give the ttip negotiators a sufficiently demanding mandate, so i voted against the resolution.
in writing. - i have been fighting against the transatlantic market project for 10 years already. a report on this subject is before us today. it validates the draft treaty in its broad outlines, while maintaining the principle of arbitration tribunals, which is widely condemned in europe and the world. a survey carried out by the commission revealed that 98% of europeans surveyed are opposed to this private justice. so much so that in june the coalition of the right and the social democrats postponed the vote for fear of losing on this point. today, i am still clearly and consistently opposed to the transatlantic market and to arbitration tribunals, and i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ the resolution tabled by lange is a document in favour of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. the transatlantic partnership would further reduce the economic sovereignty of eu member states and create a free trade area that is clearly unfavourable to the eu and its citizens. some of the proposed amendments are very interesting and go in the right direction, but do not sufficiently change the text. as an opponent of the transatlantic partnership, i am voting against it.
in writing. the lange report on the transatlantic treaty is a scandalous attack on democracy and demonstrates the non-representativeness of this parliament. while 97% of european citizens expressed concern about ttip, meps decided to ignore it to satisfy obscure interests. and all this for a hypothetical increase in long-term growth (0.4% growth over ten years according to studies financed by the commission), which is estimated to be lower than the cost of sanctions against russia. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by road, rail and inland waterway. the dispute settlement mechanism which will allow a private company to take legal action against a state if a standard does not suit it is also perennial. the treaty would therefore regulate the playing field for multinational companies in defiance of the sovereignty of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership between the european union and the united states. the european commission is responsible for conducting the negotiations, but the european parliament has a significant responsibility and power, as it will have to approve the agreement and can give its political guidance to the commission to influence the negotiation. the tipp will increase trade and therefore job creation through the prospect of additional outlets for our companies, especially our smes. i will, however, remain very vigilant to ensure that it does not weaken the european standards which protect us and which i am committed to. that is why i voted in particular for amendment no 117 which calls for the replacement of the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism (isds) by 'a new system subject to democratic principles and control, where any cases will be dealt with in transparency by independent professional judges, appointed by the public authorities, in open court, and which will include an appeal mechanism, a mechanism which will ensure the consistency of judicial decisions and respect for the jurisdiction of the courts of the european union and its member states and which will prevent public policy objectives from being compromised by private interests'.
in writing. ‒ parliament has today sent an important signal, and has recalled its red lines on ttip. the exclusion of public services and audiovisual services from the negotiations, the protection of our standards and our agricultural model, the protection of our choice of company, the recognition of geographical indications, the need for reciprocal access to public procurement, these are some of the red lines for which i am proud to have voted. the european parliament has managed to break out of a deadlock by demonstrating not only the need to protect our investors abroad but also to abandon the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism as it currently operates. the latter must be reformed to respect the right of states to regulate. it must function as a genuine public court. it will have to meet transparency obligations and include an appeal mechanism. we must tell the truth to the citizens who are too often exploited by dishonest political machines. today we sent a message of caution to the negotiators: parliament will not accept anything.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament resolution on the negotiations for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, known as 'ttip', simply because the adoption of this resolution means support for the continuation of the negotiations. for more than two years now, european citizens, but also many local authorities and smes, have strongly opposed this agreement, which directly threatens existing rights and protections in europe. the great transatlantic market is a threat to the construction of political europe, which has become absolutely essential today if we are to hope to save the union. we know all too well that common markets without political and democratic institutions capable of imposing rules on the markets only increase competition between states. a free trade agreement of this magnitude cannot be achieved without the objectives of respecting and implementing the economic, social, environmental and cultural rights of european and american citizens.
in writing. ‒ the lange report on the transatlantic treaty is a scandalous attack on democracy and demonstrates the non-representativeness of this parliament. while 97% of citizens in the member states expressed concern about ttip, meps decided to ignore it (after postponing debate and voting in order to reach a discreet agreement behind the scenes) to satisfy obscure interests, all for a hypothetical increase in long-term growth (only 0.4% over ten years according to studies funded by the commission!), which is estimated to be less than the cost of sanctions against russia. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by road, rail and inland waterway. the dispute settlement mechanism which will allow a private company to take legal action against a state if a standard does not suit it is more enduring. this treaty would therefore set the playing field for multinational companies in defiance of the sovereignty of the member states and the peoples. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ after lengthy debates and socialist melodramas, particularly on the dispute settlement mechanism, we have finally adopted the report on ttip, which sets out parliament's interests in the negotiations between the european commission and the us authorities. i voted in favour of this report, on which i tabled 50 amendments, most of which have been accepted. however, if we have succeeded in including our red lines, we must continue to be vigilant during the continuation of the negotiations in order to defend the interests of our citizens and our companies. europe cannot be the only continent that is still in a world in motion. yet the far left and far right have managed to find allies in the french greens and socialists to maintain the status quo in our relations with the united states. are they so pleased to see our companies struggling in american public procurement? are they satisfied with the continuation of trade disputes (boeing vs airbus)? why refuse to even negotiate to put all the issues on the table? the policy of the ostrich is not worthy of the leading commercial power we are. those who voted against underestimated europe and overestimated the united states.
in writing. ‒ today, parliament adopted a resolution on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). the text does not constitute a final vote on the ptci but reflects the recommendations made by the european parliament to the european commission in the negotiations with the united states. although this resolution contains recommendations which are in the right direction in terms of the protection of social rights, i have decided to vote against this text because it does not quite clearly reject the establishment of private arbitration tribunals. the french socialists have always firmly rejected the creation of such private courts between the state and investors, which undermine the democratic foundation of our courts and call into question the legislative sovereignty of public authorities. finally, on the protection of public services, i regret that the resolution does not guarantee that only the services explicitly mentioned are covered by the agreement in order to strictly limit the scope of the ptci. on this fundamental issue, as well as on regulatory cooperation on social, environmental or agri-food standards, the resolution adopted does not go far enough in its recommendations to the commission for the continuation of negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, better known by its acronym ttip, is a free trade agreement between the european union and the united states, which aims to stimulate additional reciprocal economic growth. nevertheless, the absolute necessity to preserve our lifestyles, and therefore our high european standards, seems hardly compatible with certain aspects of the american model, hence the differences, particularly on the famous arbitration courts or the application of environmental and food standards. in addition to the disagreements over the substance of the treaty, the asymmetry between the two parties (the united states being an 'imperialist' federal state speaking with one voice against the european union which often speaks with 28 dissonant voices) should make us extremely cautious. this was not a vote for or against ttip; the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. therefore, as this report may be in favour of or against a 'smart ttip', i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the free trade agreement between the european union and the united states, in particular because of the clause on the private arbitration mechanism, the so-called 'isds', which, despite a vague compromise amendment, is still included in the resolution. the isds could allow for arbitration where multinationals would challenge the choice of european or french legislators and their jurisdictions. private justice has no place in commercial disputes between democratic states. that is why i say that if, at the end of the negotiations, private arbitration were to be included in the agreement between the european union and the united states, i would reject ttip.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which addresses the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states (ttip/ptci). among these recommendations, we have been able to recall the red lines we have always defended, namely the protection of our standards and choices of society, the exclusion of sensitive agricultural products, the exclusion of audiovisual services and public services, reciprocal access to public procurement and the recognition and protection of our geographical indications. as regards the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism (isds), we reject the isds in its current form. as the text states, it must be reformed, respect the right of states to regulate, comply with rules on transparency and include an appeal mechanism. it must function as a genuine public court. we will remain attentive to the concerns expressed by european citizens and will be vigilant as to the development of the negotiations.
in writing. the negotiations between the european commission and the united states to conclude a general free trade agreement are being conducted in the most opaque manner. this treaty would lead to the dismantling or weakening of all the standards (social, environmental, etc.) which protect european citizens. above all, it places the rights of investors above those of the states. the freedom to legislate and the sovereignty of the peoples, protected from the interference of multinational corporations concerned for their own profits, must not be called into question. the mechanism for private arbitration between states and investors has not been clearly removed from this resolution, which serves as a negotiating mandate for the commission. this is despite the fact that our national courts have full jurisdiction to hear such cases. the european parliament has missed the opportunity to assert itself as the voice of the european citizens and to echo their concerns about isds by adopting a resolution which is still too ambiguous. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ this text is a declaration of intent. despite the attempt by some amendments to limit the scope of the text and to try to force the commission to reduce the scope of this ttip agreement in the making, we can only oppose the principle of this agreement. the national front is leading the opposition to this agreement, which is putting many traditional sectors (or not necessarily) of our country at great risk. most of the amendments limiting the text were rejected. the text as a whole was approved by a very large majority of members, which in my humble opinion is a betrayal of the elites. i therefore vote against this text, which is of major importance for the future of our children.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has succeeded in voting on the ttip (tafta), the great transatlantic market which wants to keep up with the emerging countries. the resolution, which is based on illusions about the opening up of public procurement in the united states or the possibility of better regulation of financial services, even aligns the untruths about the purely technical role of the regulatory cooperation council with the maintenance of current plant health or environmental rules while their change is already underway or the protection of the cultural and audiovisual sectors, without taking into account the digital. martin schulz, president of the european parliament, has put his full weight in the balance, multiplying procedural scams to ensure the support of the "grand coalition" by even proposing a last-minute compromise made of convoluted formulations on the isds (investor-state dispute settlement) private arbitration mechanism. as a result, the latter remains part of the negotiations and could, like everything else, serve as a model for the whole world. the european parliament, which has not been involved in the mobilization of european public opinion, voted 436 in favour, 31 against. it goes without saying that i am one of the 241 who voted against.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this report on the stabilisation agreement with macedonia. the report calls for the stabilisation agreement with macedonia to be validated. the national front is opposed to this reckless and unlimited enlargement policy, particularly with the countries of eastern europe and the balkans. however, i chose not to participate in systematic opposition. the aim of this text is simply to bring the association and stabilisation agreements concluded and ratified previously into line. the negotiations started in december 2012 and culminated in the signing of a protocol on 25 october 2013. opposition to this protocol, which is merely a legislative adaptation, would be a fruitless opposition. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, since croatia has become a full member of the european union, there is no longer any need, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols. article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession merely provides that croatia is to accede to the conventions and protocols under that act.
in writing. ‒ if i am opposed to the unlimited enlargement of the european union and to the so-called 'association agreements', which are generally only the first step towards the accession of a new member state, this text is only a legal adjustment, the association agreement with macedonia having already been concluded and ratified. this is therefore a fairly logical legal adjustment.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the validation of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. even though the national front is vehemently opposed to any possible enlargement of the european union and to association agreements of this kind, this text is in fact aimed at a logical alignment. the association and stabilisation agreement with macedonia has already been concluded and ratified. i therefore voted in favour of this text, as a matter of form.
in writing. ‒ this text gives the european parliament's approval to the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities, the member states and macedonia to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. although we are opposed to unlimited enlargement of the union and the so-called association agreements, we can only approve the legislative adaptation of this agreement, which has already been concluded and ratified, the text of which is itself primarily intended to bring it into legal conformity. the vote against this recommendation would therefore be a fruitless opposition. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the validation of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom), of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i am certainly opposed to the logic of the unlimited enlargement of the european union and the globalist type of agreements, the so-called 'association agreements', concluded between the union and most of the states of the former communist bloc. however, the text itself is primarily intended to bring the association and stabilisation agreements into line, as they have already been concluded and ratified; the negotiations started on 18 december 2012, following technical consultations with the fyrom on the subject. this country confirmed its agreement to the protocol on 25 october 2013. the aim of this protocol is therefore to bring the agreements into line with the law. in this sense, to vote against formally would be a fruitless opposition.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the conclusion of a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. i think it is only right that croatia, now a full member of the european union, should become a party to this agreement, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. relations between the european union and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are formalised by a stabilisation and association agreement which entered into force in 2004. since then, croatia has joined the union and its status as a member state must be taken into account in its trade, including trade, with macedonia. this is the objective of this protocol.
in writing. ‒ the council should, on behalf of the european union and taking into account the accession of croatia to the european union, approve the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part. this decision follows logically on from the accession of croatia to the european union in 2013. croatia enjoys a privileged position vis-à-vis the fyrom and will be able to play a strategic role within the union in helping this country which is currently experiencing security difficulties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the report on the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia has already been ratified, as has the report on the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia. it is only a question of voting in favour of a legislative adaptation of the latter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is above all about bringing the legislation into line.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this report on the stabilisation agreement with macedonia. the rapporteur calls for the agreement to be ratified, despite the continued reference to the republic of croatia's accession to the european union. the members of the national front denounce this policy of unthinking and endless enlargement, especially in the countries of the former eastern bloc. however, our opposition is intelligent, unlike the attitude of our opponents toward us. the aim of this text is simply to bring the previously concluded and ratified association and stabilisation agreements into logical and legal conformity. negotiations initiated in december 2012 resulted in the signing of an agreement with the protocol on 25 october 2013. opposing this protocol, which is, let us remember, a mere legislative adaptation, would be nothing but a fruitless opposition, which we refuse to embody.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ivo vajgl on the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. this purely technical text updates the existing agreement by including croatia, the last country to join the union. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i am opposed to the logic of unlimited enlargement of the european union. however, this text is only a legal adjustment. the accession of croatia is a reality which must be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it only updates an association agreement already ratified with macedonia. i would like to remind you, however, that i am opposed to the unlimited enlargement of the european union.
in writing. - i voted yes. even though i, like my colleagues in the group, am opposed to any form of enlargement of the european union, this is a legal compliance since the association agreement has already been signed. it is therefore logical that this legislative 'update' should take place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol which is a simple alignment of the association and stabilisation agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia of 2012, following the accession of croatia in 2013. although i am against any enlargement, this is simply a legislative adaptation of an agreement which has already been concluded and ratified.
in writing. ‒ the technical report is simply an attempt to bring european law into line with croatia's accession. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has signed a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union, of which croatia has been a member since july 2013. the aim of this agreement is, of course, to create a free trade area in the western balkans and it requires respect for the neoliberal doxa with major structural reforms. so, although it is a purely technical report, i am against it.
in writing. ‒ in the text, the rapporteur calls for the agreement to be validated, despite the continued and sustained reference to the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to prevent the further spread of the virus. but this text is simply intended to bring the previously concluded and ratified association and stabilisation agreements into logical and legal conformity. negotiations started in december 2012 resulted in the signing of an agreement with the protocol on 25 october 2013. opposing this protocol, which is, let us remember, a mere legislative adaptation, would be nothing but a fruitless opposition, and we refuse to be that. i voted yes.
in writing. this report on the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia aims to endorse the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the union. the report's main objective is to bring the situation into line. although i am firmly opposed to any enlargement of the union, i decided to vote in favour of it, since it is a purely technical text, given that the association and stabilisation agreement with macedonia has already been concluded and ratified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical text, which is to take account of croatia's accession to the european union in the negotiations conducted by the european commission with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia with a view to concluding a protocol to a stabilisation and association agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report on the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia endorses the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the union. the objective of this report is to bring the situation into logical conformity. although i am firmly opposed to any enlargement of the union, i decided to vote in favour of it, since it is a purely technical text, given that the association and stabilisation agreement with macedonia has already been concluded and ratified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol on the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, to take account of croatia's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the validation of the draft council decision on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, in order to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. we are certainly opposed to the logic of unlimited enlargement of the union and the globalist type of agreements known as 'association agreements' between the european union and most of the states of the former communist bloc. however, this text is mainly aimed at bringing the association and stabilisation agreements into line, as they have already been concluded and ratified. this country confirmed its agreement to the protocol on 25 october 2013. it therefore seeks to bring the agreements into line with the law, and to vote against it formally would be to oppose it fruitlessly. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this is not a major political agreement, but rather a legislative alignment through the addition of the protocol. in september 2012, negotiations were reopened between serbia and the union to establish this protocol to take account of the new accession of croatia to the union, which amended certain aspects of the initial agreement. as a member of the national front, i am opposed to enlargement of the union and therefore oppose these association agreements. however, this is simply a matter of endorsing a common sense development and bringing it into conformity with legislation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, since croatia has become a full member of the union, there is no longer any need, as in the past, to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols. article 3 (4) and (5) of the act of accession merely provides that croatia is to accede to the conventions and protocols under that act.
in writing. ‒ while i am opposed to the unlimited enlargement of the european union and to the so-called association agreements, which are generally only the first step towards the accession of a new member state, this text is only a legal adjustment, the association agreement with serbia having already been concluded and ratified. this is therefore a fairly logical legal adjustment.
in writing. ‒ this text gives the european parliament's approval for the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities, the member states and serbia to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. although we are opposed to unlimited enlargement of the union and the so-called association agreements, we can only approve the legislative adaptation of this agreement, which has already been concluded and ratified, and whose text is primarily aimed at bringing it into legal conformity. the vote against this recommendation would therefore be a fruitless opposition. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. as with the agreement with macedonia, this is simply a matter of compliance, especially since the agreement has been ratified. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the form, but remain opposed to enlargement of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes a position in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. in line with the logic of mr vajgl's report, the council's proposal is to bring the agreement into line with the legislation by adding a protocol to the association agreement concluded between the union and serbia. once again, although i am formally opposed to the bulimia of enlargement which is affecting the union and to the principle of association agreements, which are part of a globalist matrix, here the question is not to vote for or against these agreements which have already been ratified, but to make a sensible legislative adjustment.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the conclusion of a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities, their member states and serbia, to take account of croatia's accession to the european union. i think it is only right that croatia, now a full member of the european union, should become a party to this agreement, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. croatia joined the european union on 1 july 2013. it should therefore be integrated into all agreements previously signed between member states and third countries. parliament approved the conclusion of a protocol to add croatia to the existing stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the republic of serbia.
in writing. ‒ the council should, on behalf of the european union and taking into account the accession of croatia to the european union, approve the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and serbia, of the other part. this decision follows logically on from croatia's accession to the european union. a serbia-croatia partnership shared with the rest of the union contributes to the stability of the balkans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. this is a simple legislative adaptation of the agreements, as well as a question of legal clarity and consistency in the system of union law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is above all about bringing the legislation into line.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the republic of serbia, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. this is not a major political agreement, but rather a legislative alignment through the addition of the protocol. in september 2012, negotiations were reopened between serbia and the union to establish this protocol, taking into account the new accession of croatia, which amended certain aspects of the initial agreement. as a member of the european parliament from the enl group, i am opposed to the union's reckless enlargement policy and therefore i am against the association agreements. however, this vote is not about voting for or against the agreements, but simply about endorsing a common sense evolution and legislative alignment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague david mc allister's report on the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia. this purely technical text updates the existing agreement by including croatia, the last state to join the union. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusion of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. i am opposed to the logic of unlimited enlargement of the european union. however, this text is only a legal adjustment. the accession of croatia is a reality which must be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it merely updates an association agreement already ratified with serbia. i would like to remind you, however, that i am opposed to the unlimited enlargement of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which is a simple legislative adaptation to bring croatia into compliance with the eu's accession. i would like to remind you that we are opposed to any form of enlargement based on a globalist matrix which destroys the sovereignty of peoples.
in writing. ‒ this is the same type of approval procedure as in the case of the report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia voted on the same day. the technical report is simply an adjustment of european law to take account of the accession of croatia in july 2013. serbia has signed a stabilisation and association agreement with the union, of which croatia has been a member since july 2013. serbia was granted the status of candidate for accession to the european union on 1 march 2012. the negotiations have always been tough as the union seeks to humiliate its balkan "black sheep", both in terms of economic policy and foreign policy. i have already expressed my position during the vote in committee on this almost cockamamie affair which has led croatia to approve the strengthening of the union's ties with serbia, despite the still fresh scars. i am voting for the motion to help serbia break out of its current isolation and enable it to defend itself against the threats of the other countries in the movement linked to the german conservatives, who are particularly docile in the region.
in writing. ‒ this is not a major political agreement, but rather a legislative alignment through the addition of the protocol. in september 2012, negotiations were reopened between serbia and the union to establish this protocol, taking into account the new accession of croatia, which amended certain aspects of the initial agreement. we are opposed to the european union's ill-considered enlargement policy. however, this vote is not about voting for or against the agreements, but simply about endorsing a common sense evolution and legislative alignment. i voted yes.
in writing. this report on the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, like the previous one on the yugoslav republic of macedonia, is intended to conclude the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. since this is a purely formal and technical report, i have decided to vote in favour of it, although i am opposed to any enlargement of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical text, which is to take account of croatia's accession to the european union in the negotiations conducted by the european commission with serbia with a view to concluding a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report on the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia, like the previous one on the yugoslav republic of macedonia, is intended to conclude the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. since this is a purely formal and technical report, i have decided to vote in favour of it, although i am opposed to any enlargement of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol on the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia to take account of croatia's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ following the same logic as mr vajgl's report, the council's proposal aims at bringing the legislation into line by adding a protocol following the association agreement concluded between the european union and serbia. on 24 september 2012, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with serbia, on behalf of the european union, its member states and croatia, in order to conclude a protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. those negotiations resulted in the initialling of the protocol on 10 december 2013. although we are formally opposed to the enlargement bulimia of the union and to the principle of association agreements which are part of a globalist matrix, the point here is not to vote for or against these agreements, which have already been ratified, but to make a legislative adjustment of common sense. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this proposal for a scientific cooperation agreement with india. the indian prime minister, who is from the nationalist party, is concerned about his people and intends to accompany a major change in society, which is now mainly agricultural, in order to orient it towards a reasoned and reasonable industrialization. the agreement provides for reciprocal possibilities of access to the programme of installation projects, exchange of information and adequate protection of intellectual property. the exchange of research for mutual economic development will be the key to sustainable peace through development. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ while i challenge the union's right to substitute itself for member states in the conclusion of treaties, india is destined to become one of our preferred partners in the multipolar world of tomorrow. india is a great country, the heir of a multi-millennial civilization, and its geostrategic importance is growing.
in writing. this report on 'science and technology cooperation with india' aims to renew the scientific and technical partnership agreement with india. india occupies an extremely important geostrategic position for the future, particularly in the necessary rebalancing which must take place against the united states, and this country, like the other brics countries, must be an indispensable partner for france and europe. although i am opposed to the union's exclusive competence in partnership matters, because i believe that foreign policy should be a matter for the member states, i voted in favour of this report in order to send a positive signal to india.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to give an opinion on the renewal of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and india, which was signed in november 2001. the aim of this initiative is to increase the exchange of knowledge and the transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific community, industry and european citizens. for the last 14 years, experience has shown us that mutual access to each other's programmes and activities allows us to benefit from each other's scientific progress in order to make our companies more competitive. although we are opposed to the european institutions negotiating agreements with third countries in place of the member states, we consider that the links between france and india are geostrategic in relation to the american leadership and that it is therefore essential to protect this partnership. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ india's growth is particularly evident in the field of scientific research, where the country has emerged as one of the leaders in recent years. the european union signed a mutually beneficial agreement on scientific and technological cooperation in 2002. it has enabled increased cooperation in the field of research promoting innovation. the report aims to approve the renewal of this agreement to continue a lasting understanding between the two parties. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with india. i am sure that the european union does not have the legitimacy to enter into such strategic partnerships with foreign powers on behalf of france, but cooperation with india does help to rebalance the balance in the game of nations, particularly in relation to the united states. the agreement in question states that it is concluded for an initial period of five years and that it may be renewed by mutual agreement between the parties. since its signature in new delhi on 23 november 2001, this initiative has enabled a genuine exchange of specific knowledge and a transfer of know-how for the benefit of the scientific communities, industry, since the agreement is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocal access to each other's programmes and activities in relation to the object of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property and fair sharing of intellectual property rights, and effective exploitation of intellectual property rights. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. n the diplomatic field.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to renew the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european community and india, signed in new delhi on 23 november 2001 and already renewed in 2009 by decision 2009/501/ec. the agreement stipulates that it is concluded for an initial period of five years and may be renewed by mutual agreement between the parties, after review in the last year of each successive period. i believe that india is a strategic partner for the european union and that it is appropriate to maintain the continuity of scientific and technological relations with that country, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european union has fruitful relations with the republic of india in the field of scientific and technical cooperation. an agreement was first concluded in 2002 and is now being renewed for another five years. it allows research projects to be carried out by pooling the resources of our universities and our companies. our engineers also meet and exchange best practice.
in writing. ‒ cooperation in the field of science is beneficial for both the european union and india. the participation of indian universities and enterprises in the european framework programmes has been steadily increasing since the conclusion of the cooperation agreement in 2001, which is a step in the right direction. today, the horizon 2020 programme offers more funding opportunities for research or design programmes for new technologies developed by european and indian partners, which is a driver of growth and competitiveness for our businesses, and is development aid for india. we therefore call for the renewal of the science and technology cooperation agreement between the european union and india for a further period of 5 years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. the indian power is a counterweight to the power ceded to the united states of america by the commission. in its desire for increased americanism, the union omits the possibility of other partners. my vote is to remind you that india is not meant to be excluded from the international political scene but must be one of france's privileged partners.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because, although i am opposed to agreements concluded directly by the european union, i believe that a high-level strategic relationship with a country like india is necessary, especially for france.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague jerzy buzek's report on scientific and technological cooperation with india. this report validates the renewal of this partnership agreement, which is vital for india and the union. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with the republic of india. as a sovereigntist party, the front national denies the european union the right to conclude treaties on behalf of france. however, india's strategic and geostrategic importance will make it an indispensable partner of france. this deserves a vote in favour, a positive signal to the government of this state.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it renews the scientific and technical partnership with india. india is a geostrategic country, and it is important that we work with it to counterbalance the influence of the united states. i would like to remind you, however, that i would prefer that this type of partnership be concluded by france and the other member states rather than by the european union.
in writing. - i voted yes. this is a report which renews the scientific and technical partnership with india. the country's geostrategic role is particularly important and it is necessary to support this type of partnership. although, with my colleagues, i am still critical of the fact that the european union can sign agreements which bind the member states. but in this case, france has every interest in developing close ties with india, and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this renewal agreement. although we do not like the fact that the union as a whole is negotiating such an agreement with a third country, we do recognise the geostrategic importance of relations with india. we encourage france to come closer to india individually, but until then, we support this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india was signed in new delhi on 23 november 2001 for a period of 5 years. this agreement was extended in 2009. the areas of cooperation concern the areas of research and technological development. the report proposes to extend the agreement again. i vote for the continuation of this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ of course, we supported this proposal for a scientific cooperation agreement with india. the first democracy in the world, its president, who cares for his people, intends to accompany in a reasonable way a great change in society, which is mainly oriented towards agriculture, in order to orient it towards a reasoned and reasonable industrialization. an agreement as envisaged today with reciprocal possibilities of access to the programme of installation projects, exchange of information and adequate protection of individual property is perfectly suited to us. the exchange of research on mutual economic development will be the guarantee of lasting peace.
in writing. this report on 'science and technology cooperation with india' aims to renew the agreement on scientific and technical partnership with india. although it is fiercely opposed to the exclusive competence of the european union in this area and denies any possibility for it to conclude treaties in place of france and the member states, india occupies an extremely important geostrategic position for the future, especially for the necessary rebalancing that must take place against the united states. it is clear that india (as well as the other brics countries) must be an indispensable partner for a strong and independent france. these reasons are sufficient to justify a vote in favour of this text, which is intended to send a positive signal to the authorities in india.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on scientific and technological cooperation with india. the agreement between the european union and india was to be renewed for a period of five years, although it expired on 17 may. the agreement covers all research and development activities of the horizon 2020 programme as well as the union's participation in indian projects. the costs of this cooperation will not entail any additional transfers of funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european community and the government of the republic of india. it is important to sustain and strengthen our partnerships with third countries, particularly in sectors that call for innovation and creation. this agreement, which has already been signed, required the approval of the european parliament to be effective, and it was important to vote in favour of it in order to encourage cooperation between our industries and research centres and between the citizens of the european union and those of the republic of india.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which validates the renewal for five years of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and india. the agreement, which covers all research, technological development and demonstration activities, is a valuable tool in the indispensable cooperation between india and the european union.
in writing. ‒ i do not recognise the european union's capacity to negotiate and sign a cooperation agreement with a third country. nevertheless, cooperation with india will be one of the major challenges of the coming decades, given the importance of this country and its development. i voted in favour of this text because i wanted to show my interest in this power and my desire to develop france's links with it in order to balance the weight of our various strategic partners.
in writing. ‒ in view of the rapid growth of emerging countries such as india, the union has decided to conclude cooperation agreements with these strategic countries covering various fields. in this context, the union concluded a scientific and technological cooperation agreement with india in 2002. the european parliament voted in favour of renewing the agreement. i voted in favour of this text and i would like to stress the importance of these agreements in supporting dialogue and trade between the union and third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement renewing the scientific and technical partnership with india. while denying the european union the right to conclude treaties in place of france, india's geostrategic importance in the concert of the balancing powers in the united states will make it an indispensable partner for a strong and independent france. the national front delegation wishes to send a positive signal to this state.
in writing. ‒ this is a scientific and technical partnership with the faroe islands. this cooperation is part of the horizon 2020 programme, which i, together with my colleagues from the national front, oppose. only member states can conclude international agreements and it is not for the european union to decide on national interests in diplomatic matters. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ in addition to the fact that the faroe islands, an autonomous danish territory, have a very special legal status, it is difficult to see the value of this scientific and technological cooperation called for by mr buzek. it is not the european union's place to conclude such treaties anyway, and that is why i voted against.
in writing. this buzek report on 'scientific and technological cooperation with the faroe islands: horizon 2020' asks for the consent of the members of the european parliament to the scientific and technological partnership agreement with the faroe islands. although i am opposed to the exclusive competence of the union in matters of partnership, since i believe that foreign policy should be a matter for the member states, i voted in favour of this report because the faroe islands, an autonomous territory of denmark, are in a special situation and do not fall within a major geostrategic and political situation.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the european council concluded the agreement, resulting from negotiations between the commission and the faroe islands, on scientific and technological cooperation under the horizon 2020 programme. this agreement provides that, in return for a financial contribution, legal entities of the faroe islands may participate in the indirect actions and activities of the joint research centre of the european commission under the same conditions as those applicable to legal entities of the member states of the european union. we have always opposed the union taking the place of the member states in negotiating treaties or agreements with third countries. the faroe islands are also in a special legal situation and are not of particular importance to french diplomacy. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the fields of scientific and technological research are essential for the economic and social development of states. to this end, the european union has set up the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme. it focuses funding on three priorities: scientific excellence, industrial leadership and societal challenges. research and innovation are global issues and scientific cooperation agreements are needed for our future. the european union has signed an agreement with the faroe islands to include them in the horizon 2020 programme. this cooperation will bring mutual benefits to our development. i voted for this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report, which seeks to engage in scientific and technological cooperation with the faroe islands under the horizon 2020 programme. not only do i deny the european union's ability to conclude such agreements in place of france, but this partnership is of little strategic interest to our country. the faroe islands are an autonomous territory of denmark, which is also in a special legal situation. in this sense, i consider the draft agreement unrealistic, which contains provisions on the conditions for participation of the faroe islands in indirect actions and in the activities of the commission's joint research centre under the same conditions as those applicable to legal entities of the member states of the european union. i am also opposed to the horizon 2020 programme, which is part of a multiannual framework, to the detriment of the reality of the economic and budgetary situation in the union.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to associate the faroe islands with the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme. the agreement, signed on 17 december 2014, gives the faroe islands the status of associated country to horizon 2020 and the rules on the dissemination of results. in addition to this agreement, regular discussions were held on policy orientations and priorities, the research outlook in the faroe islands and in the union and the conditions for the participation of the faroe islands in indirect actions and in the activities of the commission's joint research centre under the same conditions as those applicable to legal entities of the member states of the european union. i have voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to strengthen the links between the union and the faroe islands in this area.
in writing. the faroe islands are an autonomous entity of the kingdom of denmark. they are not members of the european union but cooperate with it, particularly in scientific and technical matters. the conclusion of a new protocol will enable the faroe islands to participate in the horizon 2020 programme. it is the largest research programme in the union, with €80 billion available for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ parliament gave its approval to the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands. this territory will now be associated with the european union's horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation. i have pledged, since my election, to preserve the sovereignty of the states. i therefore do not want the union to sign a partnership on behalf of france. it is for the state alone to assess the relevance of this agreement to the objective of serving the interests of these citizens. moreover, the faroe islands do not have any particular advantage that would encourage france to enter into close cooperation by signing a partnership. there is therefore no reason to vote in favour of a report of dubious utility and which encroaches on what should be the prerogatives of the states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because this agreement, in addition to being concluded directly through the european union, is concluded with a territory under danish sovereignty and, therefore, contributes to a fragmentation of national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ this is a scientific and technical partnership with the faroe islands. this cooperation is part of the horizon 2020 programme, which we oppose. only france can conclude international agreements and it is not for the european union to decide on french interests in diplomatic matters. i have therefore decided to vote against this report on scientific and technological cooperation with the faroe islands.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jerzy buzek on scientific and technological cooperation with the faroe islands. this report validates the agreement concluded between the union and the faroe islands on scientific cooperation under the horizon 2020 programme. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation. as a sovereigntist party, the front national denies the european union the right to conclude treaties on behalf of france and the other member states. the faroe islands, an autonomous territory of denmark, are in a special situation. we are also opposed to the horizon 2020 programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it concerns the conclusion of a scientific and technical partnership agreement with the faroe islands. i believe that the conclusion of such agreements should be a matter for the member states and not for the european union. on the other hand, i am particularly against this agreement, because the faroe islands are not a sovereign state but an autonomous danish territory which has no diplomatic significance for french interests.
in writing. - i voted against this cooperation. the faroe islands are not of major geostrategic interest to france and this cooperation is part of the horizon 2020 strategy, which we reject, so we cannot support this cooperation. other partners seem to us to be more deserving of our interest and support.
in writing. ‒ the text proposes to establish a scientific and technological cooperation agreement with the faroe islands under the horizon 2020 programme. the main aim of this programme is to put research at the service of the market. research and scientific cooperation cannot and must not be guided by a short-term commercial vision. i am voting against the establishment of cooperation in such a framework.
in writing. ‒ this is a scientific and technical partnership with the faroe islands. this cooperation is part of the horizon 2020 programme, which we oppose. only france can conclude international agreements and it is not for the european union to decide on french interests in diplomatic matters. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this buzek report on 'scientific and technological cooperation with the faroe islands: horizon 2020' asks for the consent of the members of the european parliament to the scientific and technological partnership agreement with the faroe islands. i believe, in principle, that it is up to the member states, and in particular france, to negotiate and conclude international agreements and not the european union. as the faroe islands, an autonomous territory of denmark with a special legal status, are rather hostile to the horizon 2020 programme and do not fall within a major geostrategic situation, these elements are not likely to constitute an overriding need justifying a vote in favour of this text. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical text on the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the faroe islands. the european union and the faroe islands already have significant cooperation and have expressed their interest in further strengthening joint research and innovation. the vote was to approve the agreement signed on 17 december between the two entities.
in writing. ‒ i do not want to give the european union the ability to conclude treaties in place of the states. these attacks on national sovereignty are unacceptable because it is up to democratic governments to determine their foreign policy and the international agreements their countries sign. i am also opposed to the whole of the horizon 2020 programme. finally, the situation of the faroe islands, an autonomous territory of denmark, is quite specific but does not make it a matter of primary concern for france. for all these reasons, i am opposed to this report.
in writing. ‒ in the framework of scientific cooperation between the union and third countries, the union concluded a scientific and technological cooperation agreement with the faroe islands to associate them with the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation. i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement. the union has developed a high-level research programme and it is important to encourage cooperation between the union and other countries in this field.
in writing. ‒ i vote against this scientific and technical partnership agreement with the faroe islands. we denied the european union the right to conclude treaties on behalf of france. the faroe islands already enjoy a special legal status as an autonomous territory of denmark. they are of no particular diplomatic importance to french interests.
in writing. ‒ the cofferati report aims to promote long-term shareholder engagement and transparency in the governance of european companies. two important aspects were voted on: - large multinational companies and public interest bodies, which therefore manage public funds, should publish country-specific information on revenue earned, taxes paid on profits and subsidies received. it is clear that this system would effectively combat corruption and tax evasion; the elected representatives also decided to give the necessary power to the shareholders to vote on the remuneration policy of company executives. the national front has a very clear policy on these two points, and i voted for them.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's negotiating position vis-à-vis the council. the increased transparency of the boards of directors for shareholders is commendable, and this regulation could eventually lead to a better understanding of tax tourism. i supported the defeated amendment to give additional votes in the board of directors to shareholders who are concerned about the long term.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on shareholder rights and the declaration on corporate governance as they aim to introduce more transparency and to encourage longer-term shareholder engagement in companies. it is necessary to regulate large companies as much as possible by requiring them to disclose all the activities of their subsidiaries, country by country. this accounting reporting requirement would make it possible to provide precise data such as turnover in each state, total wages, value of assets and number of full-time posts. finally, i would like to commend the excellent work of my socialist colleague, mr sergio cofferati, without whom such a result would not have been possible.
in writing. ‒ article 2 (-1a) having been approved, i voted in favour of this report, as recommended by my colleague gilles lebreton, who has followed closely the drafting of this text.
in writing. this report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on long-term shareholder engagement and corporate governance statement aims to facilitate long-term shareholder engagement, including shareholder identification, the transmission of information and facilitation of the exercise of shareholder rights, as well as to ensure transparency of the engagement policies of institutional investors and asset managers and to set certain requirements with regard to the remuneration of directors and transactions with related parties. i am in favour of this spirit of corporate governance and the commitment of shareholders over the long term and i have therefore voted for this report which goes in that direction.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european parliament's proposal for a directive promotes long-term shareholder engagement and improved corporate governance. increasing shareholder and stakeholder engagement would thus help to improve the financial and non-financial performance of our companies. the report also provides for greater transparency between investors and companies. the financial crisis has shown that institutional investors (financial institutions, hedge funds, pension funds) and asset managers favour short-term returns, which leads to underperformance of our productive apparatus. the growing divergence between the interests of investors and those of companies lies in the fact that shareholders take excessive risks because it is the return on their investments that is at stake. although this report does not go into the question of existing tools to combat speculation in financial markets, we believe it is a step in the right direction. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive in plenary, although i had rejected the report in the committee on legal affairs. i am glad that the compromise proposals tabled in plenary, in a spirit of appeasement by all the political groups, have found an echo in the rapporteur. the text now provides for the possibility of an advisory vote on the remuneration policy and no longer refers to the ratio between the average remuneration of directors and employees. it provides for the possibility for member states to ensure that shareholders have an advisory vote on the remuneration ratio, but excludes the participation of employees in this procedure. finally, i welcome the fact that the text provides for an exception to the rule that the value of shares should not play a predominant role in the criteria for financial performance. the text is now balanced. all this is in the right direction, in the interests of our companies, their development and the growth of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this report, which concerned long-term shareholder commitment and corporate governance. the report itself made positive changes to the commission's draft, but the plenary refused to vote on the provisions necessary for transparency, such as article 2-1a, which required large companies to inform the member states of the nature of their activities and their geographical location. however, i could not entirely oppose this report, which proposed amending the directive by adding sound measures, such as the protection of minority shareholders, or the fact that member states could ensure that the relevant stakeholders, in particular employees, were empowered to express, through their representatives, their views on the remuneration policy before it was sent to the shareholders.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to review directive 2007/36/ec on shareholder rights with a view to improving the governance of companies listed on stock exchanges in the european union and enhancing their competitiveness and long-term viability. the aim of the text is to increase the involvement of institutional investors and asset managers, to strengthen the link between directors' remuneration and performance, to improve shareholders' oversight of related party transactions and to increase the transparency of voting directors. i have voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be balanced.
in writing. as investors, shareholders must have their financial interests protected. however, this should not be at the expense of consistent long-term corporate governance. the text we voted contains many provisions to bring transparency to shareholders and to reduce information asymmetries. the ultimate objective is to promote growth, employment and competitiveness in the internal market. i myself wanted to speak in favour of rules requiring multinational companies to file a country-by-country tax return, which should enable me to fight tax evasion and corruption.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the shareholder rights directive should be an opportunity to achieve greater transparency. large european companies listed on stock exchanges will now have to publish information on revenues, taxes paid on profits and subsidies received by country. the union will thus be able to combat tax evasion and illicit financial flows in developing countries more effectively. large companies will also have to explain to their shareholders how they are contributing to the long-term interests of their group and have clear criteria for the payment of remuneration. this very important step towards greater transparency, which the european union has started today, will have to be continued tomorrow at international level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because i believe that company law should remain the sole competence of the states.
in writing. ‒ one of the issues raised by this shareholder rights report concerns the requirement for large european companies to publish commercial and tax information for all countries in which they are established ('country by country reporting'). i voted in favour of these amendments. however, i would like to see these requirements implemented in two stages. this information should first be transmitted to the national tax administrations and to the european commission. in a second step, once a global framework has been developed, they should be made public. i am in favour of transparency, whereby companies should contribute equitably to the financing of the countries in which they are established, provided, however, that global competition is fair.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to promote long-term shareholder engagement and transparency in the governance of european companies. two main points were voted: - large companies and public interest entities should publish country-specific information on revenue earned, taxes paid on profits and subsidies received. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sergio gaetano cofferati on the long-term shareholder commitment and the declaration on corporate governance. the report proposes several ways to improve corporate governance and management, such as simplifying shareholder identification, and improving the transparency of the activities of institutional investors and asset managers. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on long-term shareholder engagement and the declaration on corporate governance. while transparency is an essential element of the business environment, excessive bureaucracy must not be allowed to undermine the competitiveness of european businesses. it is essential to find a balanced legal framework for job creation and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i support the principle of transparency, whereby large companies publish information on their activities in each country where they are located, as i have supported transparency requirements for the activities of so-called extractive industries and credit institutions. however, i abstained, like the whole of the epp group, on the complex system as presented in this report, in order not to anticipate the position that the taxe committee will take on the specific case of tax information, which is at the heart of its work.
in writing. ‒ in this report on shareholder rights, we have succeeded with the left forces in introducing the obligation for multinationals to disclose the taxes they pay in each country. this country-by-country tax return allows you to see where taxes are paid and therefore, theoretically, where profits are made. therefore, when there are very large disparities in taxes paid or very low taxation compared to the size of the company, it is easy to assume a pattern of tax fraud or tax evasion. this country-by-country reporting system will facilitate the fight against tax evasion. that is why i supported this report against the manoeuvres of the right, which first tried to reverse this aspect before trying to slow down its adoption as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to promote long-term shareholder engagement and transparency in the governance of european companies. it is a means of combating the tax-optimising practices of multinational companies, a subject which has recently been the subject of the luxleaks scandal. it also gives shareholders the right to decide on the remuneration of company directors. the council and the european parliament will engage in a dialogue on this text.
in writing. sergio cofferati's draft law aims to introduce more transparency and to encourage a longer-term commitment of shareholders to the company, by involving them more in the governance of the company. the text provides incentives for the remuneration of managers to be better linked to the long-term performance of the company. it also ensures that the interests of the company are protected and provides for member states to put in place mechanisms to promote long-term shareholding and the sustainability of companies. finally, the socialist group has won a major victory by introducing a country-by-country reporting requirement for companies to disclose all the activities of their subsidiaries, country by country - including taxes paid, including in tax havens. this is a key point in detecting and understanding tax optimisation maneuvers before citizens and before governments. i therefore voted enthusiastically for this report, which is in line with my political commitment and my parliamentary work in the special committee on tax returns.
in writing. ‒ the report finds that "in many cases, shareholders favour excessive short-term risk-taking by managers". indeed, this behaviour 'undermines the long-term financial and non-financial performance of the companies and leads to insufficient levels of investment'. to address this, the report proposes to promote long-term shareholder engagement and to increase transparency between companies and investors. the intention is commendable, but the means to implement it are still too weak. the report proposes to publish the turnover of asset managers' portfolios, or to take measures to favour long-term shareholders, whose floor is set at 2 years, i.e. lower than the average turnover of pension funds: tax benefits, loyalty bonuses and additional voting rights... it would have been more effective to remove shareholders' voting rights in the short term. nevertheless, in order to encourage awareness of the harmful effects of the financialisation of the economy, i am voting in favour.
in writing. this report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2007/36/ec to promote long-term shareholder engagement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the corporate governance statement aims to facilitate long-term shareholder engagement, including shareholder identification, the transmission of information and facilitation of the exercise of shareholder rights, as well as to ensure transparency of engagement policies for institutional investors and asset managers and to set certain requirements regarding the remuneration of directors and transactions with related parties. i am in favour of a long-term shareholder approach (through tax incentives or greater rights and decision-making powers), and i have decided to vote in favour of this report, which is a step in the right direction.
in writing. this report concerns the amendment of two directives on shareholder participation and corporate governance within the european union. more specifically, it deals with new rights and obligations of shareholders to promote long-term investment, the regulation of remuneration and the fight against short-term speculation. it also includes a number of measures to ensure greater transparency in the sector. it specifically requires companies to publish their tax obligations in each of the countries in which they operate. this is a major step forward in tax transparency and contributes to the fight against tax havens in europe.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to promote long-term shareholder engagement and transparency in the governance of european companies. two main points were voted: large companies and public interest entities should publish country-by-country information related to revenue earned, taxes paid on profits and subsidies received; shareholders will be entitled to vote on the remuneration policy of company directors. we voted for both of these points. the publication of the figures should make it possible to fight a little better against the tax optimization practices of multinational companies, a subject that has recently made headlines with the luxleaks scandal. the council and the european parliament will engage in a dialogue on the text in order to reach agreement on the final version of the legislation. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which is moving in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the financial crisis has created a need for transparency in financial markets on the part of public authorities and public opinion. the commission and parliament have been working hard on these issues and have wanted to propose a number of measures to reform the financial markets and to avoid certain deviations. with this in mind, the european parliament adopted the commission's proposal on long-term shareholder engagement and the corporate governance declaration. the text stresses greater transparency in the activities of institutional investors and the remuneration of directors. i voted in favour of the commission's text.
in writing. ‒ in the wake of the financial crisis, weaknesses in european business regulation were identified, in particular the absence of taxation that is conducive to long-term investor commitment and a lack of financial transparency. the report provides an appropriate response to these problems by a series of proposals, such as the publication of lists of shareholders in english. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year, and i hope that the council will be able to accept it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on shareholder rights. this text is a genuine step forward in encouraging longterm investment and transparency in business management. the introduction of country-by-country reporting will make it possible to detect - finally - tax optimisation schemes. in this time of crisis and tax evasion - i am thinking in particular of the luxleaks scandals - this directive is of paramount importance in order to put an end to the fraudulent maneuvers of multinational companies to the detriment of our citizens and smes. multinational companies will now have to openly declare the taxes paid in each country in which they operate - including tax havens - so that citizens and authorities can see where they actually pay their taxes, despite the temptation of our colleagues on the right in this house to remove these transparency measures. i am therefore pleased that the majority has been obtained to support the measures which we, the socialists and democrats, have taken.
in writing. the use of tax dumping by companies in europe is a burden that threatens the european project and puts member states in competition. i voted for the cofferati report because it is an expression of a european political will to combat the abuses of multinationals. it is urgent that the european union should take action to put an end to such practices. companies will now have to report on the activities of their subsidiaries country by country, revealing their turnover, the number of full-time posts, the total salaries, etc. this is a real breakthrough: multinational companies will no longer be able to hide their profits behind opaque accounts. the left wing forces in parliament, and in particular the s&d group, fought for these amendments to be voted on. it is a question of avoiding a new luxleaks, but above all of affirming our european project based on solidarity between countries. on the contrary, the conservatives in parliament, by fighting country-by-country reporting, have shown which side of the tax battle they are on. the report also calls for more transparency and dialogue. this should help to break away from the short-term logic of business.
in writing. ‒ the emissions trading system introduced by the kyoto protocol in 1997 has been interpreted as a 'right to pollute'. so it had the opposite effect. carbon dioxide emissions have not decreased, as previous forecasts and modelling had suggested. multinational stateless corporations take advantage of this system by using their financial power to buy emission rights from smaller companies. small and mediumsized enterprises are therefore the ones who suffer most from this system, even though they are by far not the biggest polluters. a stability reserve, as provided for in this text, would be only a modest palliative to a system in crisis because of its inefficiency, which, moreover, is a penalty for industry in the member states which are already in difficulty. for all these reasons, i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the union. i would just like to draw the commission's attention to a phenomenon which has been observed: countries which have a large relocation of their industries have a corresponding reduction in their greenhouse gas emissions. this quota policy must not be used as an instrument for the destruction of our industries and hence of our jobs.
in writing. ‒ it is now clear to everyone that the ets is not working. but rather than question it, the technocrats so dear to mr schulz prefer to create a "market stability reserve" to overcome this proven dysfunction. this departure from the principle of market self-regulation - to which eurobieats are usually attached - thus appears as a terrible admission of failure. but for our industries, this solution is tantamount to the creation of a new indirect tax. and this will be all the more detrimental to them since their non-european competitors are not subject to it. in fact, this system only benefits unscrupulous speculators who use the ecological pretext of reducing co2 emissions to make pollution a market value like any other. it is not surprising that high-level fraudsters are taking advantage of this flawed system that you have set up, as a group of rogue dealers seem to have done with a gigantic fraud estimated at over 5 billion euros. i voted against this report, of course, just as i voted against the tajani report in the itre committee.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is intended to create a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system, was prompted by the fall in prices on the ghg emission allowance market (the 1997 kyoto protocol polluting rights). the forecasts for co2 price developments were therefore contradicted by the reality, namely the fall in prices. the reserve that we want to create does not fundamentally challenge the system. moreover, it will obviously favour the large companies in the polluting sectors, which have the funds to buy back the emission allowances, to the detriment of medium-sized industries and smes. this report does not solve the situation at all and reproduces market failures in this ets system while making companies less competitive and adding complexity that only the big multinationals will be able to understand and finance to pollute more. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the text put to the vote by parliament provides for the creation of a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme (ges) to overcome the weaknesses of the previous system. the system put in place was designed to set a carbon price high enough to provide incentives for companies to reduce their co2 emissions in the most cost-effective way. however, the solution proposed by the commission does not guarantee the optimal functioning of the system. the carbon price remains too low for large companies in the most polluting sectors, which have sufficient financial resources to buy these emission allowances, while smes and smes are unable to do so. the amendments made by the text are trivial and do not address the core of the problem. that is why i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european emissions trading system is designed to reduce carbon emissions in the union in an economically efficient way. this should enable the european union to meet the criteria of the kyoto protocol. however, the system has shown its limitations. it was time to reform it so that it could achieve its ambitious goals. the introduction of a market stability reserve will reduce supply and demand imbalances and allow for greater flexibility in the quota market. investors will then start investing again in low-carbon technologies, which will result in a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the union. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report because it does not draw the consequences of the failure of the right to pollute promoted by the kyoto protocol. the report encourages the creation of a stability reserve following the fall in prices on the greenhouse gas emission allowance market. the objective, which was to regulate carbon dioxide emissions downwards, has missed its target, and the market stability reserve is failing to transform this system. in addition, the largest and most polluting companies were found to be able to afford to buy back emission allowances, with medium-sized companies being the most upset by these measures. the failure of the ems, which reproduces market failures and is in line with the objectives of financialization of the environment sector, has therefore led me to reject this text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to establish a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system. with an entry into force in 2019, such a scheme aims to halt the fall in the price of the carbon tonne and introduce elements of flexibility in a market defined by a rigid supply. i had advocated that it should come into force in 2021 to give the industry time to get used to the idea that licences frozen during the last mandate should not be cancelled but should be placed in reserve as soon as the new mandate was established. i also championed the idea of an innovation fund, which was included in the final agreement for a maximum of 50 million licences before the launch of a new fund in 2021. finally, the issue of the competitiveness of european companies in the globalised market and carbon leakage was raised and will be addressed in the review of the ets directive before the end of 2015. i fully support the agreement reached with the council and i voted in favour.
in writing. the european union has established an emissions trading system (ets) to reduce carbon emissions while taking account of economic realities. however, the system suffers from a surplus of "polluting rights", which weighs down on the price of carbon and discourages investment in green energy. the vote will reform the functioning of the ets from 2019 onwards: in order to reduce the total supply of allowances, the surplus will be placed in a market stability reserve. the european union is thus demonstrating its determination to achieve its environmental objectives in the run-up to the 21st conference of the parties on climate change in paris.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament gave its backing on wednesday to a reform of the european co2 emission allowance system (ees). an automatic market stability reserve should support the price of allowances from 2019 onwards. this will allow a part of the allowances to be automatically withdrawn from the market and placed in a reserve fund if the surplus exceeds a certain threshold. this amendment to directive 2003/87/ec will help to better regulate one of the pillars of our climate policy and make it easier to achieve our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. however, it will be essential to monitor the application of these rules, particularly by the most energy-intensive industries. this reform is also a signal from europe to its international partners ahead of the cop 21 conference to be held at the end of the year in paris. we call for an ambitious agreement on environmental protection and the fight against climate change at global level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. in addition to its insufficiency, this stability reserve favours large industrial groups, which alone have the financial capacity to buy back emission allowances. as is often the case, this report is about creating financial instruments whose effects have not been measured before. it is therefore a matter of being responsible and voting against this report which is based on appearances rather than any change in substance.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because it neglects the real tools to fight global warming.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the creation of a stability reserve in the ets both encourages companies to invest in low-carbon technologies and at the same time allows them to remain competitive on the international stage. this structural change was necessary to give visibility to investors. the proposed reserve takes into account the concerns of sectors exposed to co2 leakage. the competitiveness of our industries, which are already making considerable efforts, cannot be undermined. some companies have halved their co2 emissions in thirty years, but the reduction potential in the next thirty years is not as great. i therefore prefer to combine ambition and pragmatism to encourage our industrialists to enter a virtuous circle of innovation and competitiveness, and thus to maintain our jobs in europe. finally, i welcome the commission's commitment to create an innovation fund of at least eur 50 million, funded by the auctioning of emission allowances. this is a real way to support the technologies of the future!
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the creation of a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. the emissions trading system introduced by the kyoto protocol in 1997 was in fact interpreted as a 'right to pollute' and therefore had the opposite effect to what was intended. carbon dioxide emissions have not decreased as previously predicted and modelled. the largest firms benefit from this system because they have the liquidity to buy back emission allowances from smaller firms. small and mediumsized enterprises are therefore the ones who suffer most from this system, even though they are by far not the biggest polluters. a stability reserve, as provided for in this text, would be only a modest palliative to a system in crisis because of its inefficiency which is also hurting our industry, which is already in difficulty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ivo belet on the market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. the eu's emissions trading scheme is designed to encourage eu countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by offering to sell them to other countries with lower emissions. however, the abnormally low price of carbon (7 euros per tonne) no longer made these quotas attractive. a reserve was therefore created to reduce the auctioning of these allowances and thus to increase their price. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. the creation of a market stability reserve will support the price of carbon per tonne and will also encourage innovation in energy efficiency and help energy-intensive businesses, in particular to avoid relocation to less environmentally friendly regions. the reform of the quota system also puts the eu at the forefront of the paris climate conference and the 2030 climate targets.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system. this stability reserve is motivated by the fall in the prices on the market for ghg emission allowances, which are polluting rights promoted by the kyoto protocol, causing the opposite of the expected effect, namely a downward regulation of carbon dioxide emissions. a priori forecasts and modelling of carbon price developments in the eligible sectors were therefore contradicted by reality. the market stability reserve is therefore a palliative measure which does not fundamentally transform the system, which reproduces market failures, pursues the objectives of financializing economic and environmental sectors, and contributes to making member states' industries less competitive. it also appears that the large companies in the most polluting sectors are getting by with sufficient financial support to buy back emission rights. the allocation of quotas thus favours medium-sized industries.
in writing. - i voted against it. the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system will not solve the problem. its original objective of reducing carbon dioxide emissions has not been achieved. in addition, it is not possible to oblige the main polluters (certain large industries) to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, because of their financial capacity to buy back emission rights. this text emphasizes the financialization of the environment, which is not a desirable course.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which endorses a system that reproduces market failures. this quota system is once again financing the economy and the environment. it is playing against intermediate industries which do not have the financial backing of the large companies in the most polluting sectors to buy the right to pollute.
in writing. ‒ in 2012, the failure of the european carbon market was clear: given the overabundance of quotas, the price of carbon, which was too low, had no effect. the belet report makes ambitious proposals to reduce the carbon surplus available for trade, in order to support the price of emission allowances. each year, a portion of these quotas will be held in reserve if the available volume is too high. when the available volume is lower, part of the allowances held in reserve will be released and offered to operators through auctions. this stability reserve will create an incentive framework for low carbon investments. to reinforce this logic, the text provides for the creation of an innovation fund of 50 million allowances to promote industrial innovation projects that are more environmentally friendly. a crucial step has been taken. the european union must continue to work to give visibility to investors and to build credibility for its commitment to the paris climate conference (cop 21). i voted for this compromise because it is so firmly committed to a value dear to socialists - sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal aims to make structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets). the main aim is to remedy the problem of the surplus of quotas, currently estimated at over 2 billion. the report proposes that the next batches of quotas should be frozen and included in the reserve so as not to have too much of an impact on the quotas. while the problems inherent in this system seem to have been identified, the observation does not go so far as to call into question the principle of the commodification of the polluting rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am voting against this text and calling for a plan for the phase-out of coal-fired power stations, which will probably be much more effective than the market in this area.
in writing. ‒ the emissions trading system introduced by the kyoto protocol in 1997 was in fact interpreted as a 'right to pollute' and therefore had the opposite effect to what was intended. carbon dioxide emissions have not decreased as previously predicted and modelled. the largest firms benefit from this system because they have the liquidity to buy back emission rights from smaller firms. small and mediumsized enterprises are therefore the ones who suffer most from this system, even though they are by far not the biggest polluters. a stability reserve, as provided for in this text, would be only a modest palliative to a system in crisis because of its inefficiency, which further penalises our industry, which is already in difficulty. i voted against it.
in writing. this report on the market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme aims to offset the fall in prices on the ghg emission allowance market. the 1997 kyoto protocol established a market for emission allowances that is attractive on paper, but suffers from many shortcomings, the most important of which is the non-participation of the world's major polluters. this market stability reserve to cope with the evolution of carbon prices does not challenge the system but will be likely to favour large polluting companies to the detriment of smes, small and medium-sized enterprises and environmentally sound companies. it makes firms less competitive, while at the same time making the system more complex, thus strengthening the position of the multinationals which are the only ones able to cope with it administratively and financially. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report on the market stability reserve for the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme aims to offset the fall in prices on the ghg emission allowance market. the 1997 kyoto protocol established a market for polluting rights, which is attractive on paper but suffers from many shortcomings, the most important of which is the non-participation of the world's main polluters. this market stability reserve to cope with the evolution of carbon prices does not challenge the system but will be likely to favour large polluting companies to the detriment of smes, small and medium-sized enterprises and environmentally sound companies. it makes firms less competitive, while at the same time making the system more complex, thus strengthening the position of the multinationals which are the only ones able to cope with it administratively and financially. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has set new climate targets for 2030, including a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. to achieve this objective, the commission has developed specific measures and instruments. in this context, the european parliament adopted the report on the market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. i voted in favour of this text, which reflects the position of our political group. we have succeeded in including in the text the commission's commitment to create a fund of at least €50 million to promote industrial innovation projects and to help sectors exposed to carbon leakage. we must not weaken our competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the community emissions trading scheme (ects) is a 'carbon market' to reduce overall co2 emissions and meet the targets set for the european union in the kyoto protocol. it sets limits on emissions and a carbon market, allowing each company to buy or sell its "right to pollute". this system, which has already proved its worth and has served as a model for other parts of the world, does not, however, provide for a flexible supply of quotas which would have allowed it to react to changing market conditions and protect the eecsc against sudden and unexpected changes in demand. the dramatic recent fall in the price of quotas threatened to undermine the usefulness of the system. i therefore voted in favour of this report in so far as it seeks to remedy a structural shortcoming by allowing a certain amount of quotas to be set aside in cases of over-surplus.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the revision of the eu's emissions trading scheme by reducing the surplus of carbon credits available to support the carbon price which had fallen to around €7 per tonne. the creation of a market stability reserve will take effect on 1 january 2019 and will allow for the withdrawal of market shares if the surplus exceeds a certain threshold. the reserve will make it possible to draw on the allowances on the market each year in order to reduce the supply of allowances and to allow a rise in the price of carbon in europe, without affecting the competitiveness of our companies. this reserve will ultimately stabilise the carbon market. in parallel with this reform, the epp group managed to secure the commission's commitment to create a fund of at least €50 million to promote industrial innovation projects and protect sectors exposed to carbon leakage.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a stability reserve was motivated by the fall in the market price of greenhouse gas emission allowances, rights to pollute promoted by the kyoto protocol (1997), causing the opposite of the expected effect, namely a downward regulation of carbon dioxide emissions. a priori forecasts and modelling of carbon price developments in the eligible sectors were therefore contradicted by reality. the market stability reserve then appears as a palliative which does not fundamentally transform the system. it also turns out that the large companies in the most polluting sectors are getting by by having sufficient financial resources to buy back emission rights. the allocation of quotas thus favours medium-sized industries. given the unsatisfactory nature of the ets system, which reproduces market failures, pursues the objectives of financializing the economic and environmental sectors and contributes to making the industries of the member states less competitive, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ following the freezing of 900 million co2 emission allowances under the co2 ets (carbon market) for the period 2014-2016, the commission proposed in february 2014 the creation of an additional reserve of 600 million unallocated co2 allowances to be implemented in 2021. after months of negotiations, the european parliament and the council have reached a compromise that appears to be a glass half empty or half full, even if the new reserve will come into force in 2019 instead of 2021. this reserve system is a safety net to prevent speculation in the carbon market. so i refrained. a complete overhaul of the system is needed to finally encourage industry to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. this is urgent at a time when the commission is acknowledging that the surplus of quotas will increase from 2 billion now to 2.6 billion in 2020. the commission announced this on 13 july. this is good news a few months before the bourget conference.
in writing. ‒ fewer and fewer nationals of the eu member states are turning to seafaring jobs, due to the harshness of these jobs, but also to the fact that they offer less social protection than other employees. the employment on european ships is therefore increasingly being occupied by third-country nationals. the main objective of the project is to include all crews in the directive on collective redundancies, provided that the transferred vessel is registered or flies the flag of a member state. all member states which have already chosen to apply the existing directives find that they do not entail any particular additional costs. in addition, the impact on small and micro enterprises is limited, as they were already excluded from most existing directives. france is fully implementing the existing directives and seafarers already enjoy a certain level of protection. with the 'seafarers' directive' nothing will change for our country, except that we will be less exposed to social dumping from other member states. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the working conditions of seafarers working on board ships flying the flag of one of the 28 member states of the european union, while taking into account the specificities of this sector of activity. improving the working conditions of seafarers will help to give a new lease of life to this sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text which provides for the standardisation of social protection for seafarers: a top-down approach which will put all the member states of the european union on the same level as france and thus make it possible to combat social dumping and unfair competition.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on seafarers seems to me to be positive. the proposal for a directive aims to amend six other european directives which have so far excluded seafarers from their scope. as things stand, it is up to the states to decide whether or not to include seafarers in the scope of those directives. in practice, eight member states do not exclude seafarers from these directives. if we are to believe the reports on the consequences of including or excluding seafarers from the scope of the directives, it seems necessary to extend their inclusion. the member states applying these guidelines to seafarers have shown that no additional costs are incurred and, moreover, that the economic consequences are positive. moreover, french seafarers can only support this directive. the alignment of the protection standards of the member states of the european union with those of france would thus prevent unfair competition, thanks to the increased fight against social dumping. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which can enable french seamen to fight against a form of social dumping, encouraged by the european union. only a small number of member states, including france, grant seafarers the benefit of the european union directives on labour law. it is unacceptable that this europe should encourage unfair competition to the detriment of a sector which is already in great difficulty.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to amend six existing eu directives which exclude seafarers from their scope. however, their application varies widely from one member state to another, thus promoting unfair competition within the eu. french seafarers are disadvantaged compared to other states which implement the exclusions provided for in these directives, because france does not apply them. by accepting the recommendations of the report, all european countries would be subject to the same rules and would be placed on the same level as france. i therefore voted in favour of this draft directive because it makes it possible to limit unfair competition and to combat social dumping.
in writing. ‒ there were major gaps in european legislation on the rights of workers in the maritime sector. in fact, seafarers were discriminated against by the workers of the land-based companies. it was completely unjustified to exclude certain categories of people from social rights intended to protect them. the report thus amends european directives which contained aspects which directly or indirectly discriminated against seafarers. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report by my compatriot, mrs morin-chartier, which calls for greater social protection for seafarers. the text will support the proposal for a parliament and council directive amending six existing european directives, notably concerning workers' rights, which exclude seafarers from their scope. it should be noted that eight member states, including france, have already included seafarers in these provisions. despite the concerns of the states that apply these exclusions, these eight member states stressed that this does not entail any additional costs and that it has positive effects on the maritime sector. i am personally in favour of such measures, which will help to combat unfair competition and social dumping by companies from states which do not apply these directives to seafarers.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to integrate shipboard personnel, known as 'seafarers', into six directives from which they were previously excluded. these european social and employment legislation concerns the insolvency of the employer, collective redundancies and the transfer of undertakings. they also lay down specific provisions, in particular as regards the information and consultation of workers and the protection of their rights. i voted in favour of this report, which was drawn up in consultation with the social partners and which makes it possible to put an end to a form of discrimination and to an exceptional system for 'seafarers'.
in writing. for too long, seafarers have been excluded from eu legislation protecting workers, even though we have developed a strong common fisheries policy. the vote on this text now corrects this shortcoming. seafarers are now covered by six directives on working conditions. they have the same consultation rights as other workers in the event of the insolvency of the employer or of collective redundancies. i expect the member states to transpose these provisions as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the european social legislation for seafarers suffers from too many exceptions, depriving seafarers of a large part of their social rights. improving the application of european social legislation to seafarers will help to restore a balance between the rights of seafarers and those of other employees, in particular as regards the rights of information and consultation within a works council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on seafarers. french seafarers enjoy a high level of protection and are not excluded from the directives which are the subject of this proposal. my vote in favour therefore means that i am determined to preserve the safety of french seafarers. it is unthinkable to reduce the working conditions and therefore the quality of life of seafarers on the pretext that other european states do not grant them a high level of protection. but let us not be fooled: this proposal is a clear indication of the harmful effects of european gigantism. it denounces the unfair competition which the union itself has introduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is aimed at strengthening social protection for seafarers and could thus bring all european countries on the same page.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the working conditions of seafarers must be improved and the exclusion of seafarers from part of european labour law must be stopped. in particular, workers must have the same rights on land and at sea as regards information and consultation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which allows a minimum level of social protection for seafarers. the main objective of this report is to include all crews in the directive on collective redundancies, provided that the transferred vessel is registered or flies the flag of a member state. all member states which have already chosen to apply the existing directives find that they do not entail any particular additional costs. in addition, the impact on small and micro enterprises is limited as they were already excluded from most existing directives. in our country, which fully applies the directives in force, seafarers already enjoy a certain level of protection. with the 'seafarers' directive' nothing will change for our country, except that we will be less exposed to social dumping from other member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs morin-chartier, on seafarers. the report aims to improve the working and living conditions of persons working on board ships flying the flag of a member state of the union. the directive will also make it possible to include seafarers in five social legislation from which they were previously excluded. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the labour law applicable to seafarers, as it is important to support decent working conditions and the application of european social legislation for persons working on board ships flying the flag of a member state of the union. it is necessary to make the maritime sector more attractive, particularly in terms of employment conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on seafarers, because the commission's proposal aims to improve the working conditions of seafarers working on board ships flying the flag of one of the member states, while taking into account the specificities of this sector of activity. this text will standardize the social protection of seafarers and thus put all the member states on the same level as france. this will help to combat social dumping and unfair competition. it is to be hoped that improved working conditions will help to breathe new life into the maritime sector.
in writing. - i voted yes. the aim of this text is to improve the social protection of seafarers. although i am opposed to any form of excessive standardization at european level where it jeopardizes the sovereignty of states, i supported this proposal because i believe it will have a positive result for french professionals since it is a question of combating the disparities which have as their main consequence social dumping and unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this proposal to amend six european directives which excluded seafarers from their scope. the guidelines cover issues such as the protection, information and consultation of workers. this proposal has no effect and no additional cost for france, which already provides seafarers with a high level of protection.
in writing. ‒ while europe has the potential to become a global maritime power, it favours deregulation and competition as the driving force behind its development. environmental protection and social policies are relegated to declarations of intent. this business model is not working. the text presented puts an end to an incongruity and an injustice. it includes seafarers, who were excluded from it, in the scope of the community directives on workers' rights. the ambition of the directives concerned is, however, short-sighted. the subject of the vote concerns the integration of seamen into their perimeters, and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in france, seafarers already enjoy a high level of protection. the application of these directives to all european countries would therefore limit unfair competition from other countries and combat social dumping. i voted yes.
in writing. the morin-chartier report on seafarers aims to standardize the social protection of seafarers and to bring the whole of the european union into line with french standards in this field. although i am usually opposed to any standards imposed on states by the eu, i believe that this text makes it possible to combat social dumping and unfair competition effectively. france has not excluded people at sea from the application of the directives, since it enjoys a high level of protection. these recommendations therefore amount to subjecting the rest of the european union to the same rules as france. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report in the sole interest of avoiding unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the seafarers directive. the aim is to improve working conditions for persons employed on board ships flying the flag of a member state of the european union. the directive will amend five texts of european social legislation whose scope did not include seafarers.
in writing. ‒ as soon as i was appointed rapporteur on this dossier, my objective was simple: to improve the working conditions of seafarers and to end the exclusions which deprive seafarers of a large part of european labour law. this overwhelming majority (642 votes in favour, 38 against and 24 abstentions out of 704 votes cast, or 91% of the votes cast) is emblematic: it reflects the european parliament's full support for a more social europe. once again, the european parliament is at the forefront of social europe. workers at sea and on land must enjoy the same rights, particularly as regards information and consultation. we are advancing social europe and we will not back down in the face of member states who tend to want to undercut it.
in writing. ‒ the morin-chartier report on seafarers aims to standardise the social protection of seafarers and to bring the whole of the european union up to french standards in this field. although i am usually opposed to the standards imposed on states by the eu, i recognize in this text the desire to combat social dumping and unfair competition effectively. france has not excluded seafarers from the application of the directives, since it enjoys a high level of protection. these recommendations therefore amount to subjecting the rest of the european union to the same rules as france. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this report in the sole interest of avoiding unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ in order to contribute to a significant improvement in the working conditions of seafarers, meps adopted the commission proposal. i am glad that i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier which makes it possible to improve the working conditions of seafarers and to put an end to the exclusions which deprived seafarers of a large part of european labour law. it is essential that workers should be able to enjoy the same rights, particularly as regards information and consultation. this report is another way of advancing social europe.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive aims to amend six existing european directives which exclude seafarers from their scope. the application of these directives varies widely from one member state to another: eight member states (austria, bulgaria, the czech republic, spain, france, portugal, sweden and slovenia) did not exclude seafarers, others excluded them from only one directive. the social partners in the shipping industry have different views on the abolition of exclusions, some in favour of exclusions, others not. the exclusions provided for in these directives are not applied in france: french seafarers already enjoy a high level of protection. by accepting the recommendations of the report, all european countries would be subject to the same rules and would be placed on the same level as france. this will limit unfair competition from other countries and will help to combat social dumping. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the european union's directives on labour law must apply to all sectors of activity, to all categories of workers and regardless of the country of the union. this report makes it possible to remedy the unfair exclusions which have hitherto affected seafarers in the application of directives on labour law. some countries, including france, had chosen not to apply these unjustified exclusions. i voted for this report which helps to eliminate the exclusions which impede the rights of seafarers. it is necessary to improve the working conditions of seafarers, while taking into account the specificities of this sector of activity, but this must under no circumstances be done at the expense of their rights. seafarers, like all workers, have the right to social protection and to safe and appropriate living and working conditions on board ships. the attractiveness of a sector, as they say, does not depend on the deterioration of living, working and employment conditions, but on the contrary on their improvement. this is how young people can be encouraged to work in this sector.
in writing. ‒ my colleagues from the national front and i do not, in principle, accept the possibility for the european union to conclude treaties in diplomatic matters in place of the member states. however, this agreement concerns the iter programme, which is of strategic interest to the french nuclear industry. i voted in favour of this text because it is in the interests of france.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ while continuing to challenge the eu's right to conclude treaties on behalf of member states, i chose to vote in favour of supporting the very promising iter project.
in writing. this is a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the eec, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 and to the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community supplementing the horizon 2020 framework programme, and regulating the participation of switzerland in the activities of iter. the iter (originally international thermonuclear experimental reactor) project is an experimental tokamak-type machine designed to demonstrate the feasibility of a nuclear reactor using the principle of fusion. the project involves 35 countries: those of the european union as well as india, japan, china, russia, south korea and the united states. this agreement therefore allows switzerland to participate in this programme and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community provides for switzerland's inclusion in the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and its participation in iter activities conducted by fusion for energy. in november 2013, the european council authorised the commission to open negotiations with switzerland, which resulted in an agreement in july 2014. although we are opposed to the european institutions negotiating agreements with third countries on behalf of the member states, we consider that the iter dossier is of paramount importance for france. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ innovation is one of the factors that will enable the european economy to recover. the capacity of european companies to innovate is very high, making our continent one of the world leaders in advanced technologies. to strengthen this phenomenon, it is essential to promote scientific and technological cooperation. our partners have a wealth of knowledge to pass on to us in this area and to each other. i voted in favour of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the union and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with switzerland. the agreement allows switzerland to participate in the iter programme, which is a strategic contribution for the french nuclear industry. i doubt the legitimacy of the european union in making such agreements on behalf of france. however, nuclear energy is one of the most strategic sectors for france. this cooperation with switzerland in the field of research and innovation will therefore be fruitful for our industry, our employees and our influence. i would like to remind you, however, of my opposition to horizon 2020, which is part of a multiannual framework to the detriment of the reality of the economic and budgetary situation in the union.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to give parliament's consent to the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and the euratom community, of the one part, and switzerland, of the other part. through this agreement, switzerland is associated with the horizon 2020 programme for research and innovation and the euratom research and training programme. the agreement thus allows switzerland to be integrated into two major european programmes, but also regulates its participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy. i believe that switzerland is an essential partner of the european union, and this despite the current negotiations in the context of the follow-up to the referendum on free movement, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. switzerland and the european union are long-standing partners. this agreement will mark a new stage in our cooperation in the field of science and technology. it is designed to combine our research efforts, particularly in the field of nuclear energy. switzerland will be associated with the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community (euratom) and the european joint undertaking fusion for energy.
in writing. ‒ innovation must be at the heart of eu policy and of these partnerships with third countries such as switzerland. the council is to approve, on behalf of the european union, the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and the european atomic energy community and switzerland and associate switzerland to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and the euratom research and training programme and regulate switzerland's participation in the iter activities conducted by fusion for energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the scientific and technological cooperation agreement with switzerland: horizon 2020 and iter activities. the nuclear sector is a major issue for france. it is therefore necessary to be reasonable and to bear in mind that many french interests depend on nuclear energy. my vote is to remind you that switzerland's participation in this agreement is intended to serve this strategic sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it allows switzerland to participate in the iter programme, which is crucial for the french nuclear strategy
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with switzerland. the agreement allows switzerland to participate in the iter programme, which is a strategic contribution for the french nuclear industry. i doubt the legitimacy of the european union in making such agreements on behalf of france. however, nuclear energy is one of the most strategic sectors for france. this cooperation with switzerland in the field of research and innovation will therefore be fruitful for our industry, our employees and our influence. i would like to remind you, however, of my opposition to horizon 2020, which is part of a multiannual framework to the detriment of the reality of the economic and budgetary situation in the union.
in writing. ‒ we do not deny the possibility for the european union to conclude treaties in diplomatic matters in place of france. however, in the case of the iter programme, in view of the strategic interest for the french nuclear industry, we are in favour of it. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report on the scientific and technological cooperation agreements with switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague jerzy buzek's report on scientific and technological cooperation with switzerland. this report validates the agreement concluded between the union and switzerland on scientific cooperation in the framework of the horizon 2020 programme and the activities of iter. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing the horizon 2020 framework programme, and regulating the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation. the agreement allows switzerland to participate in the iter programme, a scientific project on fusion energy which is strategic for the french nuclear industry. even if the national front defends national sovereignty and denies the european union the right to conclude treaties on behalf of france, the importance of the iter dossier for our country justifies a vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted yes. the iter dossier, which is the subject of this agreement, is of vital importance for the french nuclear industry. the european union is signing an agreement which commits the member states, which i am usually opposed to, but given the strategic importance of the issue for my country, it is worth supporting.
in writing. - i voted for this deal. this iter nuclear fusion programme is of vital importance to france. so, while we do not like the fact that the union has taken over the negotiations, we recognise that the swiss participation in this programme is an added value and we support this approach.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. i am firmly opposed to any cooperation with tax havens. moreover, this would be done within the framework of the horizon 2020 programme, whose main objective is to subject research to market laws. finally, the development of atomic energy in our neighbours is a threat to france and to europe as a whole. i vote against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ we do not recognise the possibility for the european union to conclude treaties in diplomatic matters in place of france. however, in the case of the iter programme and the strategic interest of the french nuclear industry, we are in favour of it. i voted yes.
in writing. this is a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 and to the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community supplementing the horizon 2020 framework programme, and regulating the participation of switzerland in the activities of iter. the agreement thus enables switzerland to participate in the iter research programme aimed at switching from fusion-based to fusion-based energy, which is strategic for the french nuclear industry (in particular because its site is in cadarache). even if we deny the european union the possibility of concluding international agreements, the reasons just given are sufficient to justify a vote in favour of this text. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical text which gives the european parliament's approval to the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation signed on 5 december last between the eu and switzerland. the agreement strengthens cooperation with switzerland in the field of controlled thermonuclear fusion and plasma physics, in particular in the context of participation in iter.
in writing. ‒ although i do not recognise the european union's right to sign such treaties, in this case the issue of this agreement is essential for france: it is indeed a question of enabling switzerland to participate in the iter programme. it is therefore a strategic issue for the french nuclear industry and its importance is paramount. i therefore support this report, despite my reservations as to its principles.
in writing. ‒ in the context of cooperation in the field of research, innovation and energy between the european union and third countries, the european parliament approved the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between switzerland and the union. i am glad that i voted in favour of this text. this agreement associates the swiss confederation to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and to the european atomic energy programme and governs the swiss confederation's participation in the activities of iter.
in writing. ‒ this text would allow switzerland to participate in the iter programme, which is strategic for the french nuclear industry. even if we deny the european union the right to conclude treaties on behalf of france, the importance of the iter programme for france leads me to vote in favour. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the guidelines for employment policies are revised annually and are intended to coordinate national employment policies. however, the european union does not have competence in this area under the existing treaties. these lines shall respect the europe 2020 framework and these political guidelines. the main objectives are to improve the flexibility of work, simplify and modernise social protection, reform the taxation of labour, combat longterm unemployment, introduce a minimum income and reform education and vocational training. since the launch of the europe 2020 strategy, labour markets in europe have been deteriorating. these guidelines are a façade for a good conscience, but the goal is liberal social reform, to the detriment of employment and social protection. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by laura agea on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, as it is essential that the union and all the member states take concrete measures to finally combat unemployment and new forms of precarious work. the report stresses the importance of establishing a minimum wage and a minimum income defined by the member states and of combating the segmentation of the labour market. it also stressed the need to invest in vocational training schemes, particularly for young people, and to improve the integration of disabled people into the labour market. i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament must set out common priorities and ambitious objectives to be achieved in the context of the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the 'guidelines' for the employment policies of the member states are supposed to allow for the coordination of reforms to be undertaken in order to 'modernise' national labour markets. while many member states are suffering from the budgetary constraints imposed by the euro zone and are sinking into an unprecedented social crisis, the commission continues to throw dust in the face by promising monsters, beautiful promises that it puts forward to impose its governance even more. the technocrats would do well to show some humility and to question themselves rather than continue to give us lessons that are ineffective or even counterproductive.
in writing. this text on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states is not only useless but could even prove harmful. these guidelines are only suggestions and are not coercive, as employment policies are (still) a matter for the sovereignty of the member states. the european union does not have to dictate to the member states what their policies should be. if we stick to the substance of the guidelines, we are not reassured by the european union either. the dogma of ultraliberalism seems to be the norm in this text, between increased flexibility of the labour market, threats to social protection, etc. moreover, since their introduction in 2010, the employment situation has been steadily deteriorating. in reality, these guidelines seek to break up employment and social protection to pave the way for ttip. for these reasons, i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report attempts to provide solutions to tackle structural unemployment in the eu member states. it shows that the lack of coordination of national policies is causing tensions in the labour market. the commission proposes in this text to harmonize labour laws and social protection systems and to promote the mobility of employees in order to unify the european labour market. other avenues are also being considered, such as improving education and promoting apprenticeship or reducing taxes on labour. the convergence of social and taxation rules within the union would have the merit of preventing member states from pursuing non-cooperative policies. however, the solutions put forward in this report are illusory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed, and has also proposed a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. we do not want to fight unfair competition within the eu at the expense of our social model. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis has highlighted the need for greater convergence between the economic and social policies of the member states. unemployment is one of the most visible consequences of the crisis, as it directly affects european citizens. we must coordinate our employment policy actions so that we can be more coherent and more effective in the fight against unemployment. we have created instruments at european level such as the european social fund which must be used to the full. the european union has a duty to help the poorest countries in the world, and to help the poorest countries in the world. i voted in favour of the report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the proposal for a council decision on the employment guidelines for the member states. these guidelines are merely declarations of good intentions, which allow the european union to dress up as a moral institution by claiming to be concerned with employment and social affairs. in reality, not only do these guidelines remain the domain of suggestion - fortunately the union has no competence in this area - but they also seek to push the member states towards convergence, i.e. the uniformity of employment standards, to the detriment of national specificities. while the desire to promote the introduction of a minimum income or the social dialogue is welcome, it is clear that all the employment guidelines remain subject to the constraints imposed by the stability pact, which introduces budgetary austerity which risks hindering these good employment initiatives.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report deals with the recent adoption by the commission of new guidelines for the employment policy of the member states. under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, member states are responsible for employment matters, but their action may be coordinated by the council of ministers with the assistance of the commission. as such, the new proposed guidelines aim to stimulate labour demand, improve labour supply and skills, improve the functioning of the labour market and ensure fairness, combat poverty and promote equal opportunities. the european parliament supports these, with emphasis on preventing early school leavers, promoting entrepreneurship among young people, emphasising the 'practical' aspect of the education system and linking education with the world of work. i believe that there is a need for better coordination of employment policies to deal with unemployment, which is particularly acute in the southern european countries, and to offer european citizens stable, suitable, sustainable and quality jobs. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the guidelines promoted by the union are only an incentive but do not seem to be going in the right direction. although social policies remain the domain of the member states, the union has set itself the objective of harmonizing them. these guidelines allow for gentle coercion to serve an objective we refuse. france must preserve its social protection levels which are beneficial to workers. i therefore oppose the commission's attempts to interfere once again in the affairs of the states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is in favour of greater constraints on the member states.
in writing. ‒ employment is for me the main challenge facing the european union at the beginning of the new parliamentary term. europe is still recovering from the crisis that has hit it hard since 2008. there are now more than 25 million unemployed in europe, 5 million of them young people. in recent months, progress has been made and many member states have seen their unemployment rates fall as a result of efforts in their employment policies. the european union therefore supports these initiatives by regularly publishing 'guidelines for employment policies', which contain advice and recommendations for the member states. the council has put forward some good proposals in these guidelines, but they have often remained too vague. i therefore voted in favour of this report which amends the guidelines in order to obtain more commitments from the member states in an effective and coordinated fight against the scourge of unemployment for too many of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which stresses in particular that employment policies in the member states must be part of a new economic approach based on investment, structural reforms and a more responsible approach to budgetary matters. the text we voted on today calls in particular for improving and simplifying the functioning of the labour market in the member states, ensuring fairness, combating precariousness and promoting entrepreneurship, while stressing the need to better adapt higher education to the labour market and the needs of businesses.
in writing. ‒ the guidelines for employment policies are revised annually and are supposed to coordinate national employment policies, but the european union has no competence in this area. these lines shall respect the europe 2020 framework and these political guidelines. the main objectives are to improve the flexibility of work, to simplify and modernise social protection, to reform the taxation of labour, to combat longterm unemployment, to introduce a minimum income and to reform education and vocational training. since their inception, labour markets have continued to deteriorate. these guidelines are a façade for a good conscience, but the goal is reform. i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague laura aega on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the report aims to set out the economic and employment guidelines with a view to supporting the europe 2020 strategy. among these guidelines, the emphasis is on stimulating demand for jobs and improving the functioning of the labour market. the report also touches on several important issues such as the prevention of early school leaving and the promotion of entrepreneurship among young people. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the european union must encourage the member states to be active in employment policies and to create favourable conditions for enterprises. member states must give priority to education in order, in particular, to align training with market needs and to prevent school drop-out.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. employment policy is a matter for the member states. it is not the european union's responsibility to deal with this, even though the measures proposed are not binding and some of them are sensible. in reality, the commission is buying social awareness at a low cost, and growth would need to be more tangible for some of the proposed measures to be applicable. many member states are suffering from the budgetary constraints imposed by the euro area and are sinking into an unprecedented social crisis. they do not need to be told what to do by the european commission.
in writing. - i voted against it. the sovereignty of the member states is still being undermined in this area in several areas. moreover, the measures described do not seem to be able to be effectively implemented because of the weakness of economic growth. it is therefore more than a statement of intent, but the main problem is that these projects will only be implemented if the member states follow the restrictive measures clearly defined by the european union. the economic situation in many of these countries, however, requires them to pursue policies of budgetary restraint. they do not therefore need the european union to impose any additional obligations on them.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for the annual revised employment guidelines, which are symbolic and which only put employment policies on the back burner. these suggestions, mainly in the area of social reforms, are intended to give the eu a good conscience, which does not even have competence in this area.
in writing. ‒ the commission sends 'guidelines' to the member states on employment every year. this year, in the good neoliberal logic, we must again 'strengthen growth through structural reforms' and 'make public finances more sustainable'. parliament has tabled a number of amendments. it stresses decent working conditions and the need for adequate social protection. our group has succeeded in calling for a guaranteed minimum income at a level equivalent to at least 60% of the median income in the member states concerned. however, the report also proposes that unemployment benefits can be converted into start-up grants for a business! against youth unemployment, he proposes to strengthen the links between education and the labour market "from the most basic level". i vote against it. i cannot support the technocrats in brussels' attempt to put the budgetary control of the member states under the control of the member states, which is supported by this report, which has been largely amended by the right wing.
in writing. ‒ the guidelines for employment policies are revised annually and are supposed to coordinate national employment policies, but the european union has no competence in this area. these lines shall respect the europe 2020 framework and these political guidelines. the main objectives are to improve the flexibility of work, to simplify and modernise social protection, to reform the taxation of labour, to combat longterm unemployment, to introduce a minimum income and to reform education and vocational training. since their inception, labour markets have continued to deteriorate. these guidelines are a façade for a good conscience, but the goal is social reform, at the expense of jobs and social protection. i voted against it.
in writing. this report is completely useless in more than one way. firstly, because the european parliament is only consulted and it is really up to the commission to propose the guidelines and then to the council to approve them. secondly, because the eu has no competence in the field of employment. but, as always, the eu finds ways to interfere with the sovereignty of the member states, in particular through the broad economic policy guidelines (the 'recommendations'). in the context of the european semester, the commission is preaching to those states which are considered to be less virtuous and demanding structural reforms, such as the flexibilization of the labour market, the 'modernization of social protection' (which, in technocratic language, means: lowering social protection) etc. however, since the introduction of these guidelines in 2010, labour markets have continued to deteriorate. and for good reason: even the imf's research department is sounding the alarm: the so-called labour market flexibility reforms have, in times of crisis or a low economic cycle, a negative impact on growth and therefore employment! i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the new guidelines for the employment policies of the eu member states. proposed by the commission and approved by the council, they require the consent of the european parliament. the main priorities and common objectives include the prevention of early school leaving, the promotion of entrepreneurship among young people, better matching of education and training with labour market needs, mobility, the implementation of the youth guarantee and the effective use of the esf to combat poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. ‒ this report is completely useless in more than one way. firstly, because the european parliament is only consulted and it is really up to the commission to propose the guidelines and then to the council to approve them. secondly, because the eu has no competence in the field of employment. but, as always, the eu finds ways to interfere with the sovereignty of the member states, in particular through the broad economic policy guidelines (the 'recommendations'). in the context of the european semester, the commission is preaching to those states which are considered to be less virtuous and demanding structural reforms, such as the flexibilization of the labour market, the 'modernization of social protection' (which, in technocratic language, means: lowering social protection), etc. however, since the introduction of these guidelines in 2010, labour markets have continued to deteriorate. and for good reason, because even the imf's research department is sounding the alarm: the famous labour market flexibility reforms have, in times of crisis or a low economic cycle, a negative impact on growth and therefore employment! i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in january 2015, according to eurostat, the number of unemployed in the union stood at 23 815 000, and 18 059 000 in the euro area. these are alarming figures and the union must work with the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to try to reverse this trend. in this context, the commission has published new guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the european parliament adopted the text and wished to stress the following points: effective fight against unemployment, support for vocational training and the reintegration of workers through training, and proposing measures for the long term. i voted in favour of this text and i stress the importance of reducing youth unemployment in the union in a sustainable way.
in writing. ‒ the employment guidelines are part of the european employment strategy. reviewed annually, they help to coordinate national employment policies and are only suggestions, since the eu has no competence in this area. they must instead respond to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and prepare country-specific recommendations. finally, these integrated guidelines must be compatible with the broad economic policy guidelines. employment measures should encourage investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility. the objectives include: :- improving the flexibility of the labour market;- simplifying and modernising social protection;- reforming labour taxation;- promoting social dialogue;- combating long-term unemployment, poverty and inequality of opportunity;- introducing a minimum income;- reforming education and vocational training, etc. since their introduction in 2010, labour markets in europe have been steadily deteriorating. these guidelines allow the eu to display a moral conscience, but above all encourage convergence in social reforms.
in writing. ‒ this report on adjustment to globalisation proposed to grant aid of eur 1.365 million following redundancies in the industrial sector. it is true that this sector is being hit hard by asian competition, as was the case for example with the finnish manufacturer nokia. in the very difficult economic situation that many of our citizens are experiencing, i believe that this aid proposal can only help our citizens to overcome the difficulties they face on a daily basis. that was a reasonable proposal, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i regret the institution of this instrument at european level and i await the planned revision of the legal basis. however, since this mechanism is widely sought, i shall vote in favour of its being used on a case-by-case basis.
in writing. ‒ finland used to be proud of the fact that it had the flower of the electronics industry. however, competition from the asian and us markets has overwhelmed them. i voted in favour of granting eur 1 365 000 to finland to help former employees of broadcom communications finland and two of its suppliers find new jobs. i voted in favour of unlocking this aid for workers who are victims of ultra-liberalism, but i continue to denounce the inconsistency of this european union which is acting like a pyromaniac fireman.
in writing. this report follows a request by finland for a financial contribution of eur 1.365 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support its telecommunications and broadcasting industry following the redundancies of 568 people at broadcom communications finland and two downstream suppliers or producers. the telecommunications sector in finland has always been a leading sector with a future, thanks in particular to nokia, but it is currently experiencing a serious crisis fuelled by competition from emerging countries, especially from asia. even though this fund provides the necessary resources to help workers who are victims of globalisation and unfair competition from low-cost countries, the eu is playing the pyromaniac fireman here by putting out the fire it has itself started with its liberal, free trade and globalist policies. however, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the text proposes to grant a financial contribution of eur 1.365 million to finland, which has applied for the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the dismissal of 568 employees in the electronics sector. the purpose of this aid is to facilitate the reintegration of workers made redundant. it should be recalled that this business sector is particularly affected by asian competition and these redundancies result from the cessation of all broadcom's activities in finland. firstly, this application fulfils the conditions for the granting of financial contributions from the egf. on the other hand, we believe it is important to help finnish workers who have been made redundant and who, like in france, are suffering the disastrous consequences of unbridled globalisation. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 2 275 000 for the redundant employees of broadcom communications in finland. the mobilisation of the fund was justified in view of the impact of globalisation on the electronics industry, which in this case has the consequence of relocating the company to the united states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i voted in favour of this report, which is a joint response to the harmful effects of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will help 500 of the 568 finnish workers at broadcom, a company specialising in the development of games for mobile phones. the wave of redundancies affected all finnish regions, in particular following nokia's decision in 2007 to outsource this production, which was then relocated mainly to asia. broadcom employees are therefore hit hard by the game of transnational productions in favour of low-cost production. the redundancies have a significant negative impact, particularly on the regional economy of northern ostrobothnia, where 424 of the 568 redundancies had a negative impact on the economy. in this region, the unemployment rate is still a few percentage points above the national average. the most scandalous thing is that the dismissed workforce is a highly skilled workforce, which puts finland in a disastrous situation, that of a country rich in young experts in the field of education. it therefore seemed right to give broadcom employees the meagre compensation for the ravages of globalisation which the egf contribution of 1 365 000 ecu represents. the commission
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help finland, which is facing a high number of redundancies in the mobile phone chip sector. finland submitted an application to receive a financial contribution from the egf in the form of the application egf/2015/001/fi/broadcom. the commission proposes to mobilise the egf in response for the sum of eur 1 365 000, or 60% of the total cost of the proposed actions. i therefore voted in favour of this report, considering that the request for information meets the criteria for mobilising the fund.
in writing. ‒ since 2004, asia has become the largest employer in the electronics and electricity sector, leading to job losses in europe and particularly in finland, where nokia had to make large-scale layoffs as early as 2011. recently, the broadcom communications group closed down all its operations, resulting in the loss of 568 jobs. in this context, the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up to provide rapid assistance to workers affected by the crisis, is useful. it is justified that the european union should allocate eur 1.3 million to help these dismissed workers, to finance new vocational training, upgrading of their skills or support programmes for entrepreneurship. finland will have to ensure that measures taken at national level complement eu funds so that people who have lost their jobs can effectively be reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is a matter of common sense to grant aid of eur 1.365 million as a result of redundancies in the electronics industry. however, such aids should be handled with caution. it is not in any way granted free of charge to help the workers concerned, but is only the just return of what the union owes them. she's trying to find a cure for the evil she herself has caused. the liberalization of trade and the intensification of technological flows in a globalised world have the direct effect of increasing competition. but it can only be beneficial if it is not unfair, which is not the case, especially with the asian countries whose working conditions for employees weigh down on product prices. this example, among many others, should alert the commission as soon as possible, so that it understands that the policy it is pursuing is benefiting many states, except those in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it provides substantial aid following many redundancies in the industrial sector.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote for this report on the adjustment to european globalisation for broadcom. this sector of industry is in fact being hit hard by asian competition, as is the case with nokia, the jewel of finnish industry. the report recommends that eur 1,365 million be paid to broadcom to facilitate the reintegration of its recently unemployed employees. the economic environment is not very favourable to european industry, nor is the commission's legislation helping it, and it is necessary to support our entrepreneurs in the face of the unbridled globalisation imposed by the eu, which is bearing the brunt of the blow only on us. this aid is therefore beneficial to our fellow citizens, who are struggling every day to overcome the crisis and the daily difficulties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri savarma on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the redundant employees of broadcom communication in finland. the fund will provide eur 2 275 000 to 568 redundant employees to finance training, counselling services or start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for a request from finland. in the face of the structural changes in world trade linked to the increasing globalisation of trade, it is important to show solidarity and support european jobs. this is the finnish electronics industry, which has been suffering from asian competition for the last ten years and for which it seems to me legitimate to allow european aid so that finland can adapt to the new commercial conditions.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of granting eur 1.365 million in aid for redundancies in the electronics industry in finland. globalisation, and asian competition in particular, has had a strong impact on companies such as broadcom, nokia and the entire electronics sector. the personalised services to be offered to redundant workers consist of three types of measures: measures to help people find new jobs, measures to help people set up businesses and training measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as i had already done in the empl committee. the fund is providing aid of 1 365 million to redundant workers in the electronics industry, who are victims of asian competition.
‒ another european globalisation adjustment fund that guarantees the relocation of multinationals! finland had already experienced a large layoff plan in 2011 with the purchase of nokia by microsoft. another company specialising in the design of mobile and electronic products, broadcom communications finland, is now in the process of laying off more than 500 skilled engineers as the north american headquarters has decided to bring together design sites in interesting markets such as china. there is no question of preserving jobs and know-how in europe. the european industrial policy continues to be a strainer. this european fund should be used to protect smes from the structural crises of capitalism. he comes here to heal the wounds of capitalism a posteriori to please the finnish government. i shall abstain, however, in order not to deprive finnish workers of this fund.
in writing. ‒ this report on adjustment to globalisation proposed to grant aid of eur 1.365 million following redundancies in the industrial sector. it is true that this sector is being hit hard by asian competition, as was the case for example with the finnish manufacturer nokia. in the very difficult economic situation that many of our citizens are experiencing, i think that this aid proposal cannot help our citizens to overcome the difficulties they face on a daily basis. i voted yes.
in writing. this report follows a request from finland for a financial contribution of eur 1.365 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support its telecommunications and broadcasting industry following the redundancies of 568 people at broadcom communications finland and two downstream suppliers or producers. the finnish telecommunications sector is indeed experiencing a serious crisis, fuelled by asian competition, which has affected nokia in particular. the egf was set up to provide assistance to workers suffering the consequences of a crisis in a particular sector, or of changes in the economic structures of the member states brought about by globalisation and free trade. its principle seems hypocritical to say the least, since it timidly mitigates the ravages of globalisation, which is the aim of the wto and is followed zealously by the eu. the increasing openness of a profession to international competition is often associated with wage cuts, and leads to a reallocation of workers from manufacturing jobs (with higher wages) to service jobs (with lower wages). however, as this aid is essential, i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the aim is to mobilise eur 1.4 million from the fund to help the redeployment of 568 employees of the finnish mobile phone chip manufacturer broadcom communications and two of its suppliers. in the 2000s, the number of employees in finnish subsidiaries on all continents increased, but from 2004 onwards asia became the largest employer in the electronics and electricity sector, while the number of employees in europe began to decrease. the redundancies at broadcom are partly linked to the trend in the finnish electronics industry as a whole, which led to the announcement of large-scale redundancies at nokia in 2011.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for €1.365 million to compensate in part for the effects of redundancies in the electronics sector. nokia in particular has suffered considerably from competition. i regret the european union's idiotic policy of giving financial aid to the unemployed, often too little, instead of allowing the member states to develop genuine industrial policies and make good use of protectionism. i cannot, however, refuse to give aid to the workers, so i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved this request. i voted in favour of this text and i hope that this aid will make a significant contribution to the reintegration of these workers.
in writing. ‒ while the european union is calling for austerity measures to be applied in all member states, it is allowing itself to increase the expenditure of its organs. i note an increase in parliament's expenditure and a 2% increase in the remuneration of commission staff. i am in favour of a reduction in the operating budget of the european institutions and therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur's proposal. personally, my priorities will be immigration and apprenticeship.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft budget for 2016, which provides for yet another round of increases while the eu is preaching austerity: a 2.2% increase in administrative expenditure, a 2.4% increase in parliament's expenditure, a 2% increase in the remuneration of commission staff and a 5.4% increase in pensions for its retired civil servants. shame on you.
in writing. the draft budget 2016 presented by the commission is a wonderful reflection of the european union's attitude. on the one hand, it is demanding ever greater sacrifices from the people and imposing ever more austerity measures, on the other hand, it is increasing its expenditure. staff remuneration is expected to increase by 2%, and pensions for retired civil servants by 5.4%. at a time when the single currency has become a burden for many countries and when budgetary and political decisions are largely dictated by germany, the people of the eu member countries will be pleased to know that it will grant macrofinancial assistance to ukraine, a non-member country, while the greeks are being brought to their knees. i have of course voted against this report because i do not support the guidelines of the 2016 budget.
in writing. ‒ the draft budget for 2016 focuses on the european institutions' desire to create decent and quality jobs and to increase the competitiveness of our companies for sustainable growth. the text to be voted also includes a response to the challenges facing the member states, such as the mass arrival of migrants on our coasts or the dangers of terrorism. while we can only welcome the 6.1% increase in the budget for competitiveness for growth and employment and the 10% increase in the security budget, we regret the inflation in administrative expenditure. as such, staff remuneration is increased by 2%. the eu should first apply austerity to itself before administering it to others. the same applies to the 5.6% increase in the budget for solidarity with third countries. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the lisbon treaty has conferred important budgetary prerogatives on the european parliament. each year the european budget is negotiated with the council to reflect the priorities of the european union for the year. this report constitutes the first examination by parliament of the draft budget of the european commission. parliament's priorities on immigration and security, youth employment and the european fund for strategic investments have all been taken into account. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i refused to support this report on the draft budget 2016. the proposals it contains are indeed disastrous: an increase in the union's administrative expenditure of 2.2% or an increase of 2.4% in parliament's expenditure, even as brussels continues to impose a deadly austerity on the shoulders of the citizens of the member states of the union. the draft budget calls for a 2% increase in the remuneration of commission staff and a 5.4% increase in the pensions of retired commission officials. reading such proposals one would almost think that there is no crisis in europe, that the union is not constantly asking its member states to make efforts to reduce their institutional structure and reform public policies. this report is a typical example of the shameless hypocrisy of the eurocrats.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this budgetary report is to define the european parliament's position with a view to the forthcoming budgetary negotiations on the draft budget presented by the european commission (153.3 billion in commitment appropriations, +2.4% and 143.5 billion in payment appropriations, +1.6%). the priority should be given to job creation, investment recovery and business development with the budgetary implementation of the juncker plan, including the contribution of the horizon 2020 programmes and the connecting europe facility, and the continuation of the youth employment initiative for 2016. it is also necessary to ensure the internal and external solidarity of the union, in particular in the field of security and migration management. moreover, with new programmes now reaching their cruising speed, it is necessary that a sufficient level of payment appropriations be provided to meet funding requests. there is, however, one issue that remains: the unpaid bill of the european union, which tarnishes the financial credibility of the union and which must be settled. this will be a difficult point for parliament to negotiate. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 budget will have to be negotiated in a trilogue between the council and parliament, which have shared this competence since the lisbon treaty. the 2016 budget should, in continuity with previous budgets, put the spotlight on investment and in particular the juncker plan, without cutting certain programmes such as erasmus or horizon 2020. this is a necessary balance between investment and budgetary rigor. the implementation of the investment plan for europe (efsi) is one of the challenges of this mandate. we will be judged on its success.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the mandate for the trilogue on the draft budget for 2016. this text is based on a paradox between respect for the principle of subsidiarity and for national parliaments and a desire for an all-embracing union. we cannot risk giving the commission additional roles, given the place it already occupies in national policies. we must therefore not encourage ambivalent attitudes but send a clear message: that of stopping the repeated interference of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this debate because it is part of a logic of substantially increasing budgetary expenditure.
in writing. ‒ we are seeing an increase in parliament's expenditure, including a 2% increase in commission staff remuneration. while the european union is calling for austerity measures to be applied in all member states, it is itself increasing its expenditure. i am in favour of sound management of expenditure, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report on the mandate for the trilogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague josé manuel fernandes' report on the 2016 budget. this report assesses the proposed 2016 budget and sets out the main points of parliament's mandate for the trilogue. the report welcomes the commission's proposal for the 2016 budget with an increase in commitment appropriations in key areas such as economic cohesion or security. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mandate for the trilogue on the draft budget 2016. in the face of the economic and political challenges that are driving the international scene today and given europe's limited resources, it is important to target the objectives of the european union correctly. by focusing on growth, jobs, internal and external solidarity and security, the union would be equipped to face current challenges while planning for the achievement of the objectives of horizon 2020.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 draft budget presented by the commission reflects the european union's attitude in a wonderful way: do as i say, not as i do. the administrative expenditure is therefore to be increased by 2.2%, that of parliament by 2.4%... the commission is not left behind, as staff remuneration is expected to increase by 2% and the pensions of its retired civil servants by 5.4%! brussels should first apply austerity to itself before administering it to others. in the meantime, domestic demand in the member states continues to be squeezed in an unreasonable way. and it is not with the juncker plan - awaited as the messiah by the delighted of the europeanist cradle, and which is only a smoke screen - that things will be fixed. but the eu is not stopping there, because it is happy to provide macrofinancial assistance to ukraine, a non-eu country, while it is reluctant to provide any assistance to greece. the solidarity of the europeanists has a good back! i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. - i voted against it. many of the negative points in this report include the desire to increase the budget of the european union. this can only be done at the expense of the financial situation of the member states. we are already in a period of austerity. the policy advocated in this report will result in an increase in expenditure and in the remuneration of commission staff. this is not acceptable in the current economic context. the european union should instead lead by example and reduce its spending while imposing austerity policies on the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this draft budget for 2016. the eu, a great lecturer, intends to impose austerity on the member states to overcome the crisis, but in the same its institutions are voting budget increases: + 2.2 % of administrative expenditure, + 2.4 % of expenditure for the parliament, 2 % increase in the remuneration of the staff of the commission, + 5.4 % of pensions of its retired officials. the eu should follow its own advice and start by applying budgetary restrictions to its own expenditure. we are firmly opposed to this draft budget.
in writing. ‒ this budget report is as inconsistent as the previous ones, which pile up without solving any of the problems raised. thus he "requests the institutions to keep their promises". already in march, the first report on the 2016 budget called for the problem of unpaid debts to be "resolved without delay". this is not the case and this report even acknowledges that, in the current state of under-budgeting of payment appropriations, the outstanding payments will not have decreased by 2020. it is also noted that the bulk of the payment appropriations from the 2014 and 2015 budgets were used to pay back arrears from the 2007-2013 programmes. the 2014-2020 programmes are therefore facing new backlogs, despite the commission's efforts to curb their implementation. these austerity measures are even described as "a reduction in calls for proposals and a reduction in pre-financing" to dissuade states, local authorities and businesses from using european funds. this absurd logic leads to the paralysis of the union's policies. the report proposes, however, to support the commission blindly in the further negotiations. i am voting against this crazy austerity logic which will end up killing the eu.
in writing. ‒ we are seeing an increase in parliament's expenditure, including a 2% increase in commission staff remuneration. while the european union is calling for austerity measures to be applied in all member states, it is itself increasing its expenditure. i voted against it because i was in favour of savings.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 draft budget presented by the commission reflects beautifully the attitude of the european union: do as i say, not as i do. the administrative expenditure is therefore to be increased by 2.2%, that of parliament by 2.4%... the commission is not left behind, as staff remuneration is expected to increase by 2%, and the pensions of its retired civil servants by 5.4%! brussels should first apply austerity to itself before administering it to others. in the meantime, domestic demand in the member states continues to be squeezed in an unreasonable way. and it is not with the juncker plan, which is awaited like a messiah by the delighted of the europeanist cradle, and which is only a smoke screen, that things will be fixed. but the european union is not stopping there, because it is happy to provide macrofinancial assistance to ukraine, a non-eu country, while it is reluctant to provide any aid to greece. the solidarity of the europeanists has a good back! i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which assesses the commission's 2016 budget proposal and sets out the main points of the european parliament's mandate for future trilogue negotiations on 14 july 2015. the text recalls that, in its resolution of 11 march 2015, parliament focused its priorities for the 2016 budget on the creation of decent and quality jobs and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the union as well as on internal and external solidarity in a secure europe.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 draft budget presented by the commission reflects the european union's attitude in a wonderful way: do as i say, not as i do. the administrative expenditure is therefore to be increased by 2.2%, that of parliament by 2.4%... the commission is not left behind, as staff remuneration is expected to increase by 2% and the pensions of its retired civil servants by 5.4%! brussels should first apply austerity to itself before administering it to others. in the meantime, domestic demand in the member states continues to be squeezed in an unreasonable way. and it is not with the juncker plan - awaited as the messiah by the delighted of the europeanist cradle, and which is only a smoke screen - that things will be fixed. but the eu is not stopping there, because it is happy to provide macrofinancial assistance to ukraine, a non-eu country, while it is reluctant to provide any assistance to greece. the solidarity of the europeanists has a good back! i have therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ meps adopted the draft budget for 2016. i am glad that the european commission has taken parliament's demands into account: the creation of decent and quality jobs, the development of enterprises, the strengthening of solidarity within the union, support for the erasmus+ programme. i voted in favour of this report and i think it reflects the priorities and objectives set out by the commission and parliament. this report will be used during the trilogue negotiations from mid-july 2015.
in writing. ‒ the mandate of the european parliament's negotiators for the 2016 budget was voted this week. in a year of such uncertainty, it was essential that european funds were properly allocated. as such, i voted in favour of this report, which incorporates the political priorities of the democrats and liberals, namely the digital single market and the energy union. in addition, the areas of employment and competitiveness, which are essential for a return to growth, have also been emphasized. i regret that the financing of the european fund for strategic investments has required the scrapping of the esm and horizon 2020, key programmes for a more integrated and competitive europe, and i therefore count on our negotiators to minimise this impact as much as possible in the negotiations that will be announced soon.
in writing. ‒ this text sets out the european parliament's mandate for the 2016 budget negotiations with the council and the commission. at this stage of the negotiations, this budget is expected to amount to 153.5 billion for commitments (+2.4%) and 143.5 billion for payments (+1.6%). when we remember the reduction in the multiannual financial framework, these increases are rather positive, especially since the mandate given is stronger than in previous years. the text highlights priorities such as the quality of jobs, support for social programmes, solidarity, cohesion and aid to countries in difficulty. i think that we should not be discouraged by the rather positive mandate of the european parliament in this negotiation. i have chosen to abstain, but i have no illusions about the outcome of the negotiations with the council. follow me. the budget of the european union should be more than ever a budget of solidarity. i see some progress in this direction on the part of the european parliament and i welcome it.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of green growth is to achieve a low-carbon economy based on the efficient use of resources. one of the direct consequences of this type of growth is structural economic change, mainly driven by the more or less artificial scarcity of resources, technological change and innovation, the opening up of new markets, the evolution of the industrial fabric and consumer demand. this change, like all changes, would necessarily lead to all-round changes in the economy, the destruction of jobs and the creation and requalification of other jobs. the green economy will increasingly weigh on the circular economy and thus on prices. it should be remembered that resource prices have increased by 147% in 15 years. it is very clear that all these changes are part of the process of changing society, in favour of a consumer society that is also dematerialized from human activities. europe, which is largely absent from this major change, is not in a position to respond to all these changes, which is probably why europe now has 24 million unemployed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which highlights the eu's ambitions to develop jobs linked to the green economy. to meet this objective, we need a comprehensive and joint response, from the political level to basic training. time is running out, because we are now missing opportunities that are being seized in other parts of the world.
in writing. ‒ there are exceptions that confirm the rule: this is a good report and i have not hesitated to support it. it contains many bold proposals which are in the right direction. i also believe that the so-called 'green economy' will create stable, sustainable and non-relocatable jobs, all in sectors where we are often a step ahead of our non-european competitors.
in writing. ‒ this report for the employment initiative aims at green growth leading to a resource-efficient economy. the transition to a green economy will create, redefine and replace jobs as a result of economic and climate change (including the scarcity of certain resources) and innovation, and therefore action is needed now to support this economy to become more efficient and to support citizens in this transition. several sectors are sources of non-relocatable jobs: waste treatment, insulation and energy efficiency, biomass, organic farming, etc. the development of these non-localizable jobs must of course be accompanied by training, but we must not neglect industrial employment, which is the strength of our economies (we must not only become a service economy) and which must be safeguarded. the transition will therefore have to be supervised and pragmatic and green workers will have to be supported in this transition. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the green jobs initiative resolution is an interesting and important idea for the european economy. even the commission, which initiated the project, admits that green growth is both a challenge and an opportunity for a dynamic labour market. we are being urged to encourage the transition to a green economy which would bring about profound changes in several sectors. the employment implications are direct: new jobs will be created but others will be replaced, eliminated or redefined. even if there are benefits for the french economy, this text still threatens the employment of low-skilled workers. i therefore abstained on this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this report is the european parliament's response to the commission's communication on the green jobs initiative. one of the european union's priorities is to fully exploit the potential of the green economy and green growth. environmental protection and competitiveness are not separate objectives. care must be taken not to introduce overly restrictive environmental rules which would have a negative impact on the competitiveness of firms and prevent job creation. however, like blue growth, green growth has significant potential for innovation and job creation. it is our duty to exploit this potential to the full by creating appropriate structures at european level and in the member states in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report, which supports initiatives aimed at creating jobs for the green economy. the commission's measures to support green growth should encourage job creation: the development of the biomass and biofuels sectors, organic farming, increased insulation and energy efficiency in the construction sector are all initiatives that should actually contribute to the creation of green jobs. however, these innovations will need to be accompanied by real training of the workforce and management of the transition: the effect on employment will be nil if skills do not follow. the creation of these green jobs should be supported by the use of several european funds, such as the esf or the erdf, which should in particular encourage regions to invest in green measures.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's position on the european commission's communication on the 'green jobs initiative' and a green action plan for smes, published in july 2014. the report focuses on environmental tax reform, energy efficiency, the development of supply chains and the role of smes. considering that the transition to 'green jobs' presents important opportunities for the european economy, but also challenges on the labour market, in particular the transition time between job creation, replacement and redefinition, it is necessary to reflect on how to accompany this transition. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report supports a green growth model and a green jobs initiative. parliament wants to close the skills gap in green technologies and support job creation through efficient and smart environmental taxation. it is estimated that some 3 to 4.2 million green jobs were created between 2002 and 2011. this sector is clearly growing. we should do all we can to encourage and support them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the green jobs initiative. the text aims at a necessary transition to a more environmentally friendly economy by reducing carbon emissions. it is designed to create jobs and redefine others in an ecological sense. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i will ensure that this text has a second objective, of course: the preservation of human health. the vote will therefore be in favour of a triple approach: ecological, economic and health. one caveat, however: measured and gradual change must be ensured without social and economic upheavals that could have far-reaching consequences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it could create stable, sustainable and non-delocalised jobs.
in writing. ‒ just one year ago, on 2 july 2014, the european commission presented measures to make the most of the employment potential of the green economy. it is therefore quite natural that the european parliament should have expressed its opinion on this initiative, in order to emphasize the need to give new impetus to this sector of future for the european economy. the sector already represents almost 500 000 jobs in france and it is estimated that more than 20 million jobs could be created in europe by the end of the decade in the renewable energy sector alone. as a strong supporter of employment, which is a major challenge for our citizens, i voted in favour of this report, which recommends supporting 'green' businesses, particularly smes, which, like digital, high-tech and the 'silver economy', are one of the key sectors and drivers of the economic future of our territories.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the transition to a green and more sustainable economy has a high potential for innovation and job creation (up to 20 million by 2020) and seems inevitable in a world threatened by climate change and wasteful resource use. however, it is necessary to ensure that this transition allows our companies time to adapt and that it does not come at the expense of the competitiveness of our manufacturing industry. the eu must also protect its industrial fabric from possible distortions of competition with companies in third countries which are not subject to the same environmental rules.
in writing. ‒ the objective of green growth is to achieve a low-carbon economy based on the efficient use of resources. it reflects a structural economic change, mainly driven by the more or less artificial scarcity of resources, technological change and innovation, the opening up of new markets, the evolution of the industrial fabric and consumer demand. this would bring about a profound transformation of the whole economy and a wide range of sectors. jobs would be created, others replaced, others redefined. this green economy would be matched by the circular economy, a real urban mine which would have a significant impact on prices. the resources, it should be noted, have increased by 147% in 15 years. these two aspects of the new economy are part of the great change in society brought about by the dematerialization of human activities. for 50 years europe has not been able to bring about this profound change in the labour market. the 24 million unemployed in europe are proof of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jean lambert on the green jobs initiative. the report aims to promote the exploitation of the job creation potential of the green economy. green jobs are beneficial in several ways, as they reduce energy and raw material consumption, limit greenhouse gas emissions, create new jobs and are often not transferable. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the green jobs initiative. the transition to sustainable economies is indeed an opportunity for new job creation, which we must seize. however, for this transition to be effective, certain conditions must be met. as one of the drivers of job creation in europe, access to finance and training in the field of sustainable development is essential for smes' transition to green jobs.
in writing. - i voted yes. there's a lot of interesting stuff in this text. the aim is to create jobs and support industry. however, it is not enough to rely on the green economy. it is interesting to note that local authorities are seen as the level which is recognised as being the most competent to make a difference. it is important, however, to monitor the sustainability of these jobs, which must not be false solutions to combat unemployment. many areas will benefit from support under this project, including agriculture, which i can only support. i therefore support this report, which should create stable, sustainable and non-transferable jobs.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for this initiative, which enables a transition to a green economy, which is both a challenge and an opportunity for the labour market to be revitalized. it will be necessary to remain vigilant in implementing these drastic changes where the skilled workforce will have to respond to new skills needs or else it will have many employment consequences. its positive impact should allow the creation of stable, sustainable and non-delocalised jobs.
in writing. ‒ i welcome this own-initiative report from parliament which takes note of the environmental challenges and irreversible damage of the modes of consumption and production of productivist capitalism, but also of the potential for green job creation. the rapporteur stresses that the 'just transition' model could increase gdp by 1% while creating more than 2 million jobs. it attaches great importance throughout its report to the defence of decent, quality and sustainable jobs. it calls for support for the green conversion of smes, the main providers of jobs and green innovation. finally, it called for the development of training and skills in these sectors. all this with a follow-up of statistical data to assess the quality of the jobs created. the report focuses on employment aspects and therefore does not address the carbon market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the objective of green growth is to achieve a low-carbon economy based on the efficient use of resources. it reflects a structural economic change mainly driven by the more or less artificial scarcity of resources, technological change and innovation, the opening up of new markets, the evolution of the industrial fabric and consumer demand. this would bring about a profound transformation in the whole economy and in a wide range of sectors. jobs would be created, others replaced, others redefined. this green economy would be doubled by the truly urban circular economy, which would have a significant impact on prices. the resources, it should be noted, have increased by 147% in 15 years. these two aspects of the new economy are part of the great change in society brought about by the dematerialization of human activities. for 50 years europe has not been able to bring about this profound change in the labour market. the 24 million unemployed in europe are proof of this.
in writing. the lambert report on the green jobs initiative aims to bring about a green economy based on the efficient use of resources. the various benefits that green growth is supposed to bring in terms of jobs, innovation, transformation - benefits that should be accompanied and encouraged by an effective transition - are recalled. however, this report does not in any way call into question the main causes of ecological change such as globalisation. it does, however, emphasize certain sectors such as waste treatment, insulation, biomass, organic agriculture, which i think it is important to support, since they cannot be relocated. this transition must be accompanied by the necessary training, but it must not be at the expense of our industrial base. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this green jobs initiative. the aim is to create new green jobs and to reduce energy and raw material consumption and greenhouse gas emissions through action along the value chain. according to the commission, the green goods and services sector grew by more than 50% between 2000 and 2011, generating more than 1.3 million jobs. similarly, the renewable energy sector is expected to create 20 million new jobs in europe by 2020.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which gives an ambitious vision of the job creation potential of the green economy in the european union. it is estimated that around 4 million green jobs were created between 2002 and 2011, despite the financial crisis that hit europe. by adopting innovative solutions to conserve resources and reduce our carbon emissions, by streamlining production methods, by creating new business models compatible with sustainable development, the green economy is an economy of the future for our continent.
in writing. ‒ the lambert report on the green jobs initiative aims to bring about a green economy based on the efficient use of resources. the various benefits that green growth is supposed to bring in terms of jobs, innovation, transformation - benefits that should be accompanied and encouraged by an effective transition - are recalled. however, this report does not in any way call into question the main causes of ecological change such as globalisation. it does, however, emphasize certain sectors such as waste treatment, insulation, biomass, organic agriculture, which i think it is important to support, since they cannot be relocated. this transition must be accompanied by the necessary training, but it must not be at the expense of our industrial base. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has adopted this green jobs initiative. i voted in favour of this text and i stress the importance of having a coherent and comprehensive framework for action so that our reforms are applicable and applied.
in writing. ‒ the measures taken by the commission to support green growth should directly and indirectly promote the creation of jobs that are not subject to cyclical fluctuations and are therefore stable. however, all the successes anticipated in the text will depend primarily on the availability of a skilled workforce. the national front delegation is not opposed to the principle. however, these changes are drastic and could have serious consequences for employment if skills do not follow (much is said about jobs created but nothing about jobs saved). it will therefore be necessary to ensure that the transition is made in a pragmatic and supervised manner and that green workers are effectively supported in the transition. i am voting in favour because, from the point of view of employment and social affairs, this green jobs initiative should create stable, sustainable jobs which cannot be relocated.
in writing. ‒ wasting resources, climate change, pollution of all kinds, as well as inequality and social exclusion are hindrances to growth. to overcome this, the european parliament's report makes proposals to encourage job creation in the so-called green economy, in particular through the efficient use of resources (reuse and recycling). in other words, to try to counter the consumerist and disposable model. concrete proposals are put forward, such as support for the ecological conversion of smes, the establishment of targeted training programmes for workers, their participation in the evolution of jobs in order to promote their quality and sustainability. the resolution also stresses the potential of sectors such as energy efficiency through, for example, insulation of buildings, and the need to develop a european industrial strategy, including in the renewable energy sector. this goes beyond the commission's proposal for a so-called 'green jobs initiative'. i therefore voted in favour, but i have no illusions about the willingness to implement such measures to go beyond the fine speeches of the commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ many of the amendments tabled were aimed at greater harmonisation and financial transparency in order to effectively combat tax fraud and evasion. the report provides for the adoption of a formal definition of the concept of 'tax haven'. it also plans to make public information on companies exploiting natural resources in developing countries. the desire to create the development of efficient tax administrations with a view to greater financial autonomy for developing countries in the coming decades is another positive aspect of this report. despite these good initiatives, many other parts are either too vague or not binding enough, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which highlights the need to strengthen financial and technical assistance to developing countries and regional administrative and fiscal frameworks in order to adopt solutions to improve transparency and cooperation in the fight against tax evasion, such as an automatic information exchange mechanism and the publication of country-by-country information, taking into account the needs and constraints of developing countries.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to promote the development of efficient tax administrations with a view to greater financial autonomy for developing countries in the coming decades. this objective is all the more legitimate in the context of a decline in eu funding.
in writing. as a development conference is being held in addis ababa, the fight against tax evasion seems to be a major issue for the countries of the south. indeed, at a time when the contributions of rich countries to development aid are declining because of fiscal austerity, tax evasion has become a major issue for the tax revenues of developing countries. this would cost them around €100 billion a year, significantly reducing their already low tax revenues (between 10% and 20%). developed countries lacked the financial means to contribute to the development of the developing countries, but it was necessary to find other sources of financing to help them build infrastructure, create jobs, stabilize themselves politically, etc. i regret that this report does not go far enough to call for the necessary transparency measures such as country-by-country information or the establishment of a list of tax havens. it even excludes the publication of essential information by natural resource companies in the developing countries. the text on tax havens is encouraging, but it does not go far enough. so i decided to abstain because it does not go far enough in the fight against money laundering, corruption and shell companies.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to promote greater efficiency in the tax administrations of developing countries in order to strengthen their financial autonomy. the measures described in this draft will thus enable them to collect taxes better and thus to cope better with the decline in the european union's allocations. the aim of these proposals is also to combat tax dumping between member states. the report as a whole is hardly to be criticized. in detail, we would like to point out that we are in favour of the information on beneficial ownership of companies being made public in open formats. this is a way of combating money laundering and the opacity that surrounds shell companies. we also want the concept of tax havens to be defined at international level and we believe that it is necessary to establish sanctions for those who resort to this kind of practice. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the third international conference on financing for development will be held in ethiopia in july 2015. in this context, the european parliament has prepared a report on the challenges of tax evasion and tax fraud in developing countries. the european union is working to eradicate both of these phenomena within its own borders. tax transparency is an absolute necessity. in our globalised economy, it is important that the union's partners have the same provisions on tax transparency to ensure fair trade competition. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ promoting the development of efficient tax administrations with a view to greater financial autonomy for developing countries is obviously a necessity, especially in a context where the european union, due to the economic and budgetary situation, is increasingly reducing its allocations to these countries. the report therefore promotes a legitimate objective, together with the fight against unfair competition in tax matters between states. some of the measures taken in this report are quite beneficial, such as the adoption of an internationally recognised definition of tax havens by the end of 2015, a need for simplification which should also go hand in hand with the establishment of sanctions against operations using this evasion. i am, however, more cautious about other suggestions in the report, such as the call for the member states to agree on a common consolidated corporate tax base: on the surface this may seem a legitimate simplification, but this approach is in the spirit of harmonization which carries within it the logic of increasing the union's powers, and therefore a loss of sovereignty for the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report, together with the report by silva pereira on financing for development adopted in may 2015, forms a 'package' of parliament's position for the 3rd international conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa in july 2015. this report proposes to address the taxation and tax governance challenges faced by developing countries and the need to enhance the transparency and efficiency of national and international tax systems. the report also calls on the european commission to present without delay an ambitious action plan to support developing countries in the fight against tax evasion and the establishment of fair, balanced, efficient and transparent tax systems. considering that it is necessary to reach a comprehensive agreement on the post-2015 development agenda, which includes credible mechanisms for mobilising national funds and combating illicit financial flows, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ illicit financial flows, according to a un report by president mbeki in february 2015, amount to 50 billion euros a year in africa. we must therefore address the challenge of tax evasion and tax avoidance in developing countries in order to ensure that official development assistance is more effective. this is why eu financial institutions will have to act vigorously to ensure that companies receiving eu support do not 'participate' in tax evasion. this is in line with the report on transparency which we voted on at our sitting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because some measures lack clarity and conciseness.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report on tax evasion and tax avoidance in developing countries. the report is still very vague in many respects and does not always specify the possible legal initiatives. the commission has also proposed a number of measures which are not binding, whereas the opposite is the case. nevertheless, this text proposes very positive developments, for example in financial transparency or in giving a legal and precise definition of 'tax haven'. the report also advocated the publicity of information on companies exploiting natural resources in developing countries, supported by streamlined and efficient tax administration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague elly schlein's report on tax evasion in developing countries. the report highlights the various problems faced by developing countries in terms of tax evasion, such as the informal economy, political and economic constraints. according to a study by global financial integrity, the developing world lost $6.6 trillion in illicit financial flows between 2003 and 2012, and states need to effectively combat them. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on tax evasion and tax evasion in developing countries. the phenomena of tax fraud and tax evasion contribute to corruption and undermine the union's development policy. faced with these challenges, europe must respond in a way that creates a stable tax system that provides a reliable and sustainable source of revenue for developing countries and thus promotes the strengthening of their democratic institutions and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i support the principle of transparency, whereby large companies publish information on their activities in each country where they are located, as i have supported transparency requirements for the activities of so-called extractive industries and credit institutions. however, i abstained, as did the whole of the epp group, on the mechanism presented in this report, in order not to anticipate the position that the taxe committee will take on the specific case of tax information, which is at the heart of its work.
in writing. ‒ in the preamble to her excellent report, my italian colleague elly schlein recalls the telling figures: illicit financial flows are equivalent to a loss of usd 1 000 billion per year for developing countries (peds), or ten times the amount of aid they receive to eradicate poverty. the report, which was adopted by a large majority, contains very ambitious proposals, some of which i defended in the taxe committee on aggressive tax optimisation. it also called on the commission to submit a proposal for companies operating in europe and the least developed countries, whether listed or not, to disclose, including to the public, their country-by-country accounts (country-by-country information). it also called for an internationally recognised definition of tax havens, sanctions for operators who use them and a blacklist of countries, including eu members, that do not combat or tolerate tax evasion by the end of 2015. finally, with this report, the commission is called upon to adopt as a matter of urgency an action plan to help the developing countries to combat tax fraud and evasion in a practical way. i am satisfied that the lines are finally moving in europe, and i voted for it without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that "tax revenues remain low in most developing countries, making them particularly vulnerable to tax evasion and avoidance by taxpayers and businesses". it therefore promotes "fair, balanced, rational and transparent tax regimes" which "provide the essential funding to governments to cover citizens' rights to basic public services, such as health and education for all" and which "help to reduce the effect of inequalities". to help these countries fight tax evasion, the report calls for the publication of country-by-country information by multinational companies. for each territory in which they operate, they will have to indicate the names of all subsidiaries and their respective financial performance, relevant tax information, assets and number of employees. the report also calls for an international definition of tax havens, sanctions for operators who use them and a blacklist of countries, including eu member states, that do not combat tax evasion. i am voting for this text which dares to attack the multinationals.
in writing. ‒ many of the amendments tabled were aimed at greater harmonisation and financial transparency in order to effectively combat tax fraud and evasion. the report calls for the adoption of an official definition of tax havens and for the publication of information on companies exploiting natural resources in developing countries. the desire to create the development of efficient tax administrations with a view to greater financial autonomy of the developing countries in the coming decades is another positive point of this report. despite these good initiatives, many other parts were either too vague or not binding enough. i abstained.
in writing. as a development conference is being held in addis ababa, the fight against tax evasion seems to be a major issue for the countries of the south. indeed, at a time when the contributions of rich countries to development aid are shrinking because of fiscal austerity, tax avoidance has become a major issue for the tax revenues of developing countries. this would cost them around €100 billion a year, significantly reducing their already low tax revenues (between 10% and 20%). however, this report does not go far enough to require the necessary transparency measures such as country-by-country reporting or the establishment of a list of tax havens. it even excludes the publication of essential information by natural resource companies in the developing countries. although all the proposals to combat tax havens are encouraging, this report does not give a deadline for the formal qualifications of tax havens. so i decided to abstain because it does not go far enough in the fight against money laundering and shell companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on tax evasion and tax evasion, which has particularly damaging effects on developing countries. according to the 2014 global financial integrity report, foreign direct investment (fdi) and official development assistance (oda) between 2003 and 2012 represented a slightly lower amount than illicit capital outflows, which are estimated to be around us$1 trillion. it is important to combat these scourges if these countries are to develop and provide for the needs of their people. the migrant crisis in europe is one of the many consequences of this development differential.
in writing. ‒ with a development conference in addis ababa, the fight against tax evasion seems to be a major issue for the countries of the south. indeed, at a time when the contributions of rich countries to development aid are shrinking because of fiscal austerity, tax avoidance has become a major issue for the tax revenues of developing countries. this would cost them around €100 billion a year, significantly reducing their already low tax revenues (between 10% and 20% of gdp). however, this report does not go far enough to require the necessary transparency measures such as country-by-country reporting or the establishment of a list of tax havens. it even excludes the publication of essential information by natural resource companies in the developing countries. although all the proposals to combat tax havens are encouraging, this report does not give any time limit on the official qualifications of tax havens. so i decided to abstain because it does not go far enough in the fight against money laundering and shell companies.
in writing. ‒ in order to combat tax evasion and tax fraud, the european parliament took the lead by proposing an own-initiative report on the fight against tax evasion in developing countries. the report was adopted by a large majority and proposes measures to increase transparency on european investments and the activities of european companies in third countries. i voted in favour of this report. however, i would like to stress that the measures that could be put in place should not entail too much financial and administrative burden, or risk being ineffective. in particular, the country-by-country reporting mechanism would be too difficult to implement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on combating tax evasion and illicit financial flows, which is essential to eradicate poverty and growing inequalities in developing countries. multinational companies should adopt a country-by-country reporting regime, which would require them to publicly report on their financial performance, the names of all subsidiaries, their tax data, assets and numbers. information on the ownership of a company should also be made public in order to prevent anonymous shell companies from being involved in money laundering or financing illegal activities. we also call on eu financial institutions to ensure that companies receiving eu support do not participate in tax evasion.
in writing. the issue of tax evasion is of particular importance for developing countries, as illicit financial flows represent a loss of resources far greater than the aid received to eradicate poverty. the schlein own-initiative report highlights two aspects of the assistance that the european union could provide to developing countries in the fight against tax evasion. the union would have a first lever: to ensure that its companies are exemplary in tax matters. the report calls on the institutions concerned (eib, ebrd, etc.) to ensure that companies receiving their support do not participate in tax evasion. the report also calls on the commission to require multinationals operating in europe and the developing countries to publish a country-by-country information report. a second means of action would be to mobilise the member states: for example, no cooperation agreement should be signed without the concept of good governance; a weak democracy feeds tax evasion and increases the burden on the poorest. it is essential that the union, to the extent of its capabilities, assist developing countries in achieving better tax governance; i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses the issues of tax evasion and tax fraud in third countries and opaque tax havens. it is a criticism of tax-free regimes which attract capital that should be taxed in other countries and which generate ferocious tax dumping. this report contains a good analysis of a system that allows banking and financial information to remain private the report therefore calls for a comprehensive action plan to combat tax evasion in developing countries, including the generalization of the un model tax treaty, the strengthening of financial and technical assistance to developing countries, the adoption of automatic mechanisms for the exchange of information and the creation of an international body to promote the comprehensive reform of existing international tax rules. this is not going far and one might say that the eu member states could start by sweeping their own doors. i voted in favour, however, because i thought that, beyond the list of good intentions, it was the right thing to do.
in writing. ‒ the principles and beliefs underlying this report seem rather positive. the increase in pollution should make us think about our lifestyle and consumption. the proposals in this report are intended to influence the work of the commission by the end of 2015. these include incentives to move towards an 'eco-design' policy for products and towards 'zero waste', thus developing recycling of these products. the report calls for very restrictive standards for new buildings and for a plan to renovate the existing building. these demands do not address the root cause, which is the liberal materialistic ideology and its cult of infinite growth. the report is ultimately a quitus for the commission to issue new unnecessary requirements. so i objected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the union to set ambitious targets for resource efficiency and to leave a wide range of possible options for innovative economic models and policy choices.
in writing. ‒ i supported sirpa pietikäinen's own-initiative report on the transition to the circular economy, as we need to develop a new consumption model to preserve natural resources and improve quality of life. to do this, it is important to set binding targets to reduce waste, increase product sustainability, promote eco-design, create a mandatory european passport to facilitate product tracking, repair and recycling. i voted for this report because parliament must remind the commission of the need to present a new 'more ambitious' strategy on the circular economy before the end of 2015.
in writing. ‒ to achieve a viable circular economy - which i wish for - we should start by encouraging short circuits, work and production at home and thus limiting international trade by relocating our economies. in short, the exact opposite of what is being promoted by the free-trade technocrats in brussels. that is why i voted against this text, which, by turning the problem upside down, does not deal with the real issues. i think this text is both ridiculous and harmful, since it is a blank cheque to the commission to issue new unproductive requirements for the member states.
in writing. this report on the transition to a circular economy is an own-initiative report by parliament, which informs the commission of the nature of the proposals it is required to make by the end of 2015. the circular economy aims to produce goods and services while significantly reducing the consumption and waste of raw materials and non-renewable energy sources. while the development of the circular economy and everything related (green economy, conversion, etc.) is a good idea, this model is the opposite of the eu's. it is a globalist, free-trade model that favors sustained growth, often in defiance of environmental, fiscal or social standards. the circular economy which is based on short circuits, local preference and local production, avoiding imports too far away to contain pollution, has nothing to do with our model, but it is a form of economy which we should support without going into the imposition of excessive standards as is the case here for the building sector. i therefore voted against this report, which should allow the commission to legislate on this point in place of the states.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's own-initiative report calls on the commission to make proposals on the circular economy. this is a series of measures aimed at moving towards eco-design of products and 'zero waste'. the report also calls on the commission to impose very restrictive standards on energy consumption in buildings to be renovated and in new construction. while it is necessary to pursue a long-term policy that respects the environment, it is unthinkable to increase the burden of environmental standards without any compensation for economic actors. the success of a viable circular economy is in fact inseparable from the implementation of smart protectionism at least at european level and the promotion of short producer-consumer circuits. in the absence of these two conditions, this new legal arsenal will only have the effect of undermining the competitiveness of our companies and once again favouring imports from countries which do not respect any basic social and environmental standards. this is a text which is ridiculous for the environment and harmful to our businesses. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on resource efficiency and the transition to a circular economy. it is very important that we make progress on environmental protection and recycling in europe. however, it must be understood that our economy is in crisis and that certain restrictive measures may stifle our businesses. to remain competitive in the global economy and to respect the environment are two compatible objectives, which must be balanced to be as efficient as possible. in this report i also supported the proposal to encourage the creation of agreements in the member states whereby the food retail sector distributes unsold products to charitable associations. this is a provision already in place in france and which will have to be applied throughout europe to combat food waste.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this report, which deals with the transition to a circular economy, which means decoupling economic growth from resource use. while the stated objective seems legitimate, the own-initiative report calls on the commission above all to take very binding measures for the member states, particularly in adopting extremely restrictive standards for buildings. while it is welcome that the members of parliament are developing a certain conservatism in the direction of reducing waste and preserving our ecosystem, it is clear that these proposals and this will make no sense in a european union cemented by the globalist ideology, which does not allow short production cycles to be promoted in the direction of reducing pollutants.
in writing. ‒ this strategic report follows the withdrawal and preparation by the european commission of a new package on the circular economy, to accompany the gradual shift of our economies to a more efficient use of resources, in particular by reducing waste generation and increasing collection and recycling targets. the text also proposes the introduction of indicators to measure the resource efficiency of our economies. i support this approach, which i believe is necessary. however, if the objectives are ambitious, it will be necessary to ensure that the new commission proposals are realistic and do not have a negative impact on the position of our european companies in the face of global competition. finally, i welcome the adoption of an amendment tabled by the french delegation in favour of combating food waste by establishing agreements between supermarkets and food aid associations so that the latter can benefit from unsold food. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the establishment of circular economy systems that retain the added value in products for as long as possible and thus eliminate excessive waste generation. it is estimated that prevention, eco-design, reuse and similar measures could save eu businesses some €600 billion, or 8% of their annual turnover. innovation in this new 'recycling' is essential for the intelligent use of resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which sends good signals to the commission. but we must be careful. if we are always trying to set an example, we risk shooting ourselves in the foot by killing the competitiveness of our enterprises and smes. in this resolution we should have spoken about the efficient use of our resources instead of the misuse of them, which is a biased and non-proactive approach, which i regret. i am glad, however, that the proposals include clear support for our enterprises, but also for research and innovation, because that is how we will set an example. we also need a global vision for effective legislation, a european vision for the circular economy. before a waste target is set at european level, we must have harmonised calculation methods for all member states, a proposal which is included in the text. finally, i welcome the broad support for my proposal to promote at member state level the establishment of agreements between supermarkets and food aid associations so that the latter can benefit from the unsold products.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on resource efficiency: moving towards a circular economy. this text, which may appear to be a good feeling, is really a communication tool. it wants the union to protect the environment, but sets unsustainable objectives. when will the majority of members understand that these changes must be gradual in order to be achieved? the report also demonstrates once again the union's commitment to environmental policy harmonization. in particular, in the proposals on waste recycling, the text aims at a single objective, ignoring local and national realities. i am voting against the lack of coherence and precision in this report. the people expect us to set concrete but realistic goals. finally, the establishment of a genuine circular economy requires first and foremost the strengthening of local structures and activities and the limitation of global trade without limits or borders.
in writing. ‒ on thursday 9 july, i voted in favour of the report on resource efficiency and the transition to a circular economy. the measures adopted are a clear message to the commission, which will make its proposals for the circular economy by the end of 2015. in the near future, we will have fewer resources for a larger population. such a transition to more sustainable and resource-efficient economic models is a concrete solution to these challenges. the report calls for a binding waste prevention target by 2025 and a recycling target of 70% of municipal waste and 80% of packaging by 2030. it also proposes other targets, such as reducing marine litter by 50% or food waste by 30% by 2025. if europe is to be more efficient, it must make the best use of its resources. it is also essential to ensure that we do not add too much to the already existing legislative constraints, which would undermine the competitiveness of our companies. to achieve this, it is essential to strike the right balance between the environment and the economy, between ambition and realism.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report on resource efficiency, which calls for a move towards a 'circular economy'. the principles and beliefs behind it seem rather positive since the catastrophic state of our environment should make us think about our lifestyle and consumption. the proposals put forward are intended to influence the work of the commission by the end of 2015. these include incentives to move towards an 'eco-design' policy for products and towards 'zero waste', thus developing recycling of these products. the report also proposes to impose very restrictive standards on new buildings and to initiate a plan to renovate the existing building. these claims are cosmetic, since they do not address the root of the problem, the cult of infinite growth. the text is therefore a blank cheque to the commission to issue new unnecessary requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sirpa pietikäinen on resource efficiency and the transition to a circular economy. this report helps to improve resource use and recycling. the text calls for the redistribution of food not sold by supermarkets to associations helping the most deprived. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on resource efficiency: moving towards a circular economy. in the face of the challenges of climate change, i believe that the transition to a circular economy that promotes the efficient and sustainable use of natural resources is essential. innovative initiatives, such as the fight against food waste, already implemented in france, must be extended to the whole of europe. however, such a transition must be adapted to the current economic environment and ensure that it does not place an excessive administrative and financial burden on enterprises in transition, particularly smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report entitled 'resource efficiency: towards a circular economy'. the report proposes a series of incentive measures, including a policy of 'eco-design' of products, to aim at 'zero waste', to impose very restrictive standards on buildings in terms of energy consumption and to renovate the existing building in this respect, to develop 'industrial synergies' in order to use cascading resources. this policy, which may appear to be responsible and forward-looking, is at odds with the existing economic model. the basis for a viable circular economy would be to promote short circuits, as well as work and production at home. the text is therefore ridiculous and harmful, since it is a blank cheque to the commission to issue new unproductive requirements for the member states.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. this text, which is revolutionary, runs counter to french interests and the economic model of the union and france. it is nothing more or less than a list of incentives for 'zero waste' based on policies of 'eco-design' of products, of 'industrial synergy'. big words to cover an empty shell! if we want to promote a stable circular economy, we should encourage short circuits, french work and production, while limiting international trade. that would be much more useful.
in writing. ‒ the circular economy is an economic and industrial system that is low in carbon and energy and low in natural resources that are not, rarely, slowly or costly renewable, based on eco-design of products and services that must promote recycling at the best cost. the report before us supports this concept. the commission is therefore asked to improve the sustainability, reuse and recycling of products and to ban toxic chemicals and promote eco-design. it also calls for binding waste reduction targets to be achieved by 2025. i am voting for this non-legislative text, with no illusions about its effects.
in writing. ‒ the principles and beliefs behind this report seem rather positive since the catastrophic state of our environment should make us think about our lifestyle and consumption. the proposals put forward are intended to influence the work of the commission by the end of 2015. these include incentives to move towards an 'eco-design' policy for products and towards 'zero waste', thus developing recycling of these products. the report also proposes to impose very restrictive standards on new buildings and to initiate a plan to renovate the existing building. these claims are cosmetic, since they do not address the root of the problem, the cult of infinite growth. the text is therefore a blank cheque to the commission to issue new unnecessary requirements. i voted against it.
in writing. this report on the transition to a circular economy is an own-initiative report by parliament, which informs the commission of the nature of the proposals it is required to make by the end of 2015. the circular economy is about decoupling economic growth from resource use. its objective is to produce goods and services while greatly limiting the consumption and waste of raw materials and non-renewable energy sources. however, this definition and economic model is the exact opposite of the economic model supported by the eu. indeed, the circular economy is based on short-circuiting, on local preference and not on the import of products crossing the planet on cargo ships. the report envisages a whole series of measures such as the 'zero waste' objective, the imposition of restrictive standards in the building sector (at a time when the construction sector is in crisis in france). i voted against this report, which is only intended to give the commission a free hand to legislate for the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the efficient use of resources. it advocates a transition of the european economy towards a circular model, with the establishment of a more coherent legislative framework for sustainable production and consumption. it is not just a question of fighting the union's dependence on dwindling resources, but also of reducing our waste, especially food. this is particularly important and i am pleased that this report calls on the commission to encourage the creation of agreements in the member states whereby the food retail sector distributes unsold products to charitable associations.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the resource efficiency report emphasises that the circular economy is a virtuous circle that we must absolutely encourage following the adoption of the resource efficiency report. to reduce waste, to use our resources efficiently, to create a new economy, the measures we have just adopted are a clear message to the european commission, which will make its proposals for a circular economy at the end of the year. however, we must remain cautious, because many very ambitious, if not too ambitious, proposals have been put forward in this report. in our constant desire to set an example for the rest of the world, we risk shooting ourselves in the foot by killing the competitiveness of our smes and our companies. we must not oppose the environment and the economy: we must support our companies, especially the most innovative ones. we also need a global vision for effective legislation, a european vision for the circular economy. before a waste target is set at european level, we must have harmonised calculation methods for all member states.
in writing. ‒ this report on the transition to the circular economy is an own-initiative report by parliament, which informs the commission of the nature of the proposals it is required to make by the end of 2015. the circular economy is about decoupling economic growth from resource use. its objective is to produce goods and services while greatly reducing the consumption and waste of raw materials and non-renewable energy sources. however, this definition and economic model are the exact opposite of the economic model supported by the union. indeed, the circular economy is based on short-circuiting, on local preference and not on the import of products crossing the planet on cargo ships. the report envisages a whole series of measures such as the 'zero waste' objective, the imposition of restrictive standards in the building sector (at a time when the construction sector is in crisis in france). i voted against this report, which is only intended to give the commission a free hand to legislate for the member states.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain from the overall vote on this report on the circular economy. i support a number of ideas on the protection of our planet, but unfortunately, some of the motions that have been adopted in the separate votes introduce deadlines for certain actions which would cause serious damage to the economy and consequently also to the number of jobs. i couldn't support that.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a text setting up european legislation to combat the waste of food, products, energy and materials. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. europe is doing this to protect consumers and to combat a scourge that may have long-term consequences for our planet. we throw away nearly 90 million tonnes of food a year, an unacceptable waste that we want to stop.
in writing. ‒ the unsustainable use of resources not only causes environmental damage, but also poses an economic risk. the global economy uses the equivalent of 1.5 earths in resources to produce and absorb waste. it is estimated that this number will reach the equivalent of two planets by the 2030s. continuing on this path would lead to an ecological and economic impasse. that is why i have voted in favour of this report, which opens the way to a paradigm shift. the report also calls for the renovation of housing stock, the cascading use of resources and the abolition of environmentally harmful subsidies. a common framework for the assessment of progress is also proposed with a view to achieving uniform and transparent progress within the union. although it has no legal value, this text encourages the commission to take action to meet the environmental challenge.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the circular economy which encourages the european union to manage its resources more efficiently. given that it would take a planet and a half to support the resource consumption of our global economy, it is high time we found sustainable access to raw materials. the objective is to increase resource efficiency at european level by 30% by 2030. beyond the environmental benefits, this improvement could help create two million sustainable jobs and lead to an increase in gdp currently estimated at 1%. to achieve this, legislative measures are needed, including new legislation on waste management before the end of the year. on the question of food waste, i voted in favour of an ambitious target to reduce food waste and encouraged the establishment of agreements in the member states to distribute unsold food to charitable organisations. i have also asked the commission to assess the possibilities of increasing the use of environmentally friendly and biodegradable food packaging. finally, i would like to reiterate my conviction that there is a need for an extension of legislation on eco-design and for a plan of measures to combat planned obsolescence.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the circular economy and accompanying measures such as reducing waste generation and resource efficiency. with the adoption of this text, we have sent a clear message to the european commission with a view to its forthcoming proposals on the circular economy by the end of the year. in this context, it is important to support both our enterprises, by setting ambitious but realistic proposals, and research. finally, i would like to emphasize the introduction into the text, thanks in particular to the french delegation of the epp, of a request for the establishment of agreements between large supermarkets and food aid associations so that they can benefit from the unsold products. this is part of a more united europe and a first step in the fight against food waste.
in writing. the fight for the environment requires better waste management and new consumption habits. it is with this in mind that the european parliament adopted the pietikäinen report on the circular economy. we want to encourage the commission to make proposals quickly on this subject. the main challenge of moving to a circular economy is extending the life of a product. this implies a fight against planned obsolescence. it is also necessary to facilitate the reuse and processing of products by turning to eco-design. this serves two purposes: to reduce our waste and to relieve the enormous pressure we are putting on our natural resources. parliament proposed concrete measures to initiate this transition, including: introducing constraints to reduce energy waste by 30% on resources compared to 2014; increasing recycling targets to 70% for municipal waste by 2030 and 80% for packaging waste by 2030. while i welcome the collective awareness of these issues, i will remain vigilant to ensure that these proposals are translated into action.
in writing. ‒ the circular economy is about decoupling economic growth from resource use. in the end, it is a new doctrine of development that is at stake. this parliament's own-initiative report sets out the commission's proposals for the end of 2015. this is a series of incentive measures, including a policy of 'eco-design' of products; the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to take action to achieve 'zero waste', to impose very restrictive standards on buildings that actually consume energy and to renovate existing buildings to this end, to develop 'industrial synergies' to use cascading resources. this policy, which may appear to be responsible and farsighted, is in contradiction with the economic model advocated by the european union. the basis for a viable circular economy would be to promote short circuits, work and production at home and thus limit international trade. the text is therefore ridiculous and harmful, since it is a blank cheque to the commission to issue new unproductive requirements for the member states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the circular economy aims to reduce resource and raw material consumption and pollution by improving recycling, energy efficiency, reducing waste and improving product design. some amendments from the right have weakened the resolution, removing the binding 2030 targets to maintain only a vague reference to 2050. the reduction of food or industrial waste, which accounts for a large proportion of waste, has been excluded from the scope of the directive, the industry lobby insists. the commission removed this issue from its work programme in december 2014. in this resolution, parliament is asking for a proposal by the end of the year. this resolution is complementary to the one on green jobs. without much illusion that the commission and the member states are prepared to go further with these ideas, i nevertheless see some ways of working towards the definition of another economy. i therefore voted in favour of this, but i have no illusions. the epp and fn voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report supports several proposals in the event of a radioactive emergency, including giving the commission the power to act as a matter of urgency by means of implementing regulations to lower radioactivity thresholds or to sanction member states that allow products to circulate in excess of the permitted limits. despite the presentation of the report, the limits defined in it are the same as in 1987, even though japan adopted new, stricter standards after the fukushima disaster. i regret that the national front was not heard when it asked for the possibility for member states to suspend the free movement of goods and persons in an emergency, as the current limits are not satisfactory. i consider this text to be largely cosmetic and in no way constitutes a breakthrough on the nuclear safety front. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that this matter is not the responsibility of the european parliament but must remain the responsibility of euratom.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this unacceptable text, since the proposed limits have remained unchanged since 1989 and amendments nos 53 and 56 were rejected. amendment no 53, tabled by the europe of nations and freedoms group, proposed that member states should be allowed to use article 36 to protect their population and livestock and to prevent contaminated foodstuffs from entering their territory.
in writing. the text on maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination after a nuclear accident aims to revise three regulations dating from the 1980s and 1990s which defined the limits of radioactivity allowed in food after a nuclear accident. this well-intentioned text is a miserable one. if we look at the text in question, the limits are the same as those laid down in a regulation that is almost thirty years old. this inaction is particularly damaging, even as countries like japan introduced standards after the march 11, 2011 earthquake that are up to twenty times lower than those of the european union. the minimum would be to allow member states to suspend the dogma of free movement in the event of a nuclear accident to guarantee the food security of the french. this cosmetic text could be improved and be really effective if it were amended. as it stands, i can only vote against.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to revise three regulations dating from 1987, 1989 and 1990 which define the limits of radioactivity allowed in food following a nuclear accident. it is cosmetic in nature and does not substantially alter the levels of contaminated food which have remained too high and no longer meet the new public health requirements. the text also does not provide for member states to suspend the free movement of products in the event of radioactive contamination of certain foodstuffs. finally, it gives the european commission more oversight power than it seems able to properly assume. for all these reasons, and because the amendment tabled by the enl group was rejected, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report sets maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination for foodstuffs, for foodstuffs of minor importance and for feedingstuffs which may be placed on the market after a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency which may lead to or has led to significant radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and feedingstuffs, and the procedures for making these maximum permitted levels applicable. i support this report, which is balanced. however, i have opposed the rapporteur's change of legal basis from a simple consultation of parliament under the euratom treaty to a codecision procedure under article 168 (4) (b) and article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in fact, according to recent case law of the court of justice and an opinion of the parliamentary committee on legal affairs, such an amendment could be annulled in the event of a dispute with the council. i was not able to win on this point of form, but i voted in favour of this report which is important for the public health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ following the fukushima disaster, the european union had to update its legislation setting maximum permissible levels of radioactive contamination after a nuclear accident. this report therefore incorporates the new data as defined by the international commission on radiological protection (icrp). the aim is twofold: to reduce as far as possible the exposure of the population to radioactivity following a nuclear or radiological crisis, while ensuring a gradual recovery of economic activities. this legislative update should also consolidate existing euratom standards in the field of health protection. article 31 of the euratom treaty on the development of standards for the protection of the general public and workers against the dangers of radiation is, in my view, the appropriate legal basis for this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency. once again, this text shows the union's inability to protect the citizens of the member states. despite the misleading title, this report does not change the permissible levels of contamination. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i know how important it is to reduce these levels in a public health objective. the member states are the only guarantors of the protection and security of their citizens, and the union must therefore restore their decision-making capacity. it's about the health of the people.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report on the proposal for a regulation setting maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs following a nuclear accident. the report supports several proposals in the event of a radiological emergency, including the power to give the commission the power to act as a matter of urgency by means of implementing regulations to lower radioactivity thresholds or to sanction member states which allow products to circulate outside limits. despite the presentation of the report, the limits defined in it are the same as in 1987, even though japan adopted new limits after the fukushima disaster. unfortunately, the national front's voices have not been heard, and that is why we are asking the member states to suspend free movement, as the current limits are not satisfactory. the text is therefore purely cosmetic and does not in any way represent a step forward in the field of nuclear safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague esther herranz garcia on the maximum permissible levels of radioactive contamination following a nuclear accident. the union has legal instruments which make it possible to respond rapidly to a disaster such as chernobyl or fukushima. among these instruments, thresholds for contamination of food are used to set a limit on the consumption of such food. these thresholds should be regularly updated with the assistance of the euratom agency. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution setting maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination for food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency. the european union must be prepared to react quickly and effectively to the serious accidents at chernobyl and fukushima, particularly in view of the conditions under which food and animal products are imported, which could seriously affect the health of european citizens if they were affected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the proposal for a regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency. the proposal is unfortunately only cosmetic. in fact, the limits defined, despite the title, remain the same as in 1987. this is all the more regrettable as japan set new limits in 2012 that are 8 to 20 times lower. the elected representatives of the national front on the environment committee had proposed to take inspiration from it. we repeated this request in plenary, but our two amendments were not accepted. there are positive points in the proposal, but it gives even more power to a commission which is unable to define more protective thresholds, almost 30 years after 1987. if so, how can we trust him?
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not really protect the people of europe in the event of a nuclear accident. it sets permissible levels of radioactive contamination for food which are much too high, as the independent nuclear expert body criirad points out. this is all the more unacceptable given that japan set in 2012 admissible rates 20 times lower! our group, the enl, has tabled an amendment to lower these excessively high rates, but the infernal socialist/epp couple (including the republicans) have agreed to reject it. once again, the european parliament is defending the interests of lobbies rather than the general interest.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this proposal is all the more unacceptable because it is useless: far from proposing new levels or finally meeting the expectations of the member states, it simply maintains the limits established in 1989 and gives more powers to the commission, which is known to be unable to define more protective thresholds, almost 30 years later. our attempt to protect the sovereignty and interests of the states through our amendments has failed. we therefore oppose this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to regulate the levels of radioactivity in food following a nuclear accident. it is essential to protect european consumers from contaminated food, as may be the case with products from japan. however, the threshold is far above the scientific recommendations and does not sufficiently protect the population as it stands. and again, the whole picture is not seen. this provision merely accommodates the free trade of foodstuffs, whereas the relocation of agriculture, which i support, would allow the member states to regain their food sovereignty and to ensure the quality of their production. finally, the other risks of radioactive contamination of air or water are avoided. i vote against the proposal to encourage awareness of the dangers of nuclear power, without endorsing the thresholds set.
in writing. ‒ this report supports several proposals in the event of a radiological emergency, including the one to give the commission the power to act as a matter of urgency by means of implementing regulations to lower radioactivity thresholds or to sanction member states that would allow products to circulate outside limits. despite the presentation of the report, the limits defined in it are the same as in 1987, even though japan adopted new limits after the fukushima disaster. unfortunately, the national front's voices have not been heard, and that is why we are asking the member states to suspend free movement, as the current limits are not satisfactory. the text is therefore purely cosmetic and does not in any way represent a step forward in the field of nuclear safety. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to re-establish the three regulations defining the limits of radioactivity allowed in food after a nuclear accident. the proposal is designed to enable the commission to lower the thresholds for radioactivity permitted in emergency situations, to improve transparency in the process, in particular by informing the public, to sanction member states which allow products to circulate outside the limits or to compensate farmers who have suffered damage. the limits set out there are essentially similar to those established by the 1987 directive, whereas the members of the enl group had proposed to take as their model the new japanese limits adopted following the fukushima incidents, which are 8 to 20 times lower. the text therefore does not change much, but it does give the commission more power, while the commission is still unable to establish more protective thresholds. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report setting maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination for food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency. i voted against the measures in this text which seek to challenge the legal basis of the euratom treaty. as with other nuclear legislation, this legal basis should be respected in order to increase legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to re-establish the three regulations defining the limits of radioactivity allowed in food after a nuclear accident. the proposal is designed to enable the commission to lower the thresholds for radioactivity permitted in emergency situations, to improve transparency in the process, in particular by informing the public, to sanction member states which allow products to circulate outside the limits or to compensate farmers who have suffered damage. the limits set out there are essentially similar to those established by the 1987 directive, whereas the members of the enl group had proposed to take as their model the new japanese limits adopted following the fukushima incidents, which are 8 to 20 times lower. the text therefore does not change much, but it does give the commission more power, while it remains unable to establish more protective thresholds. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i voted in favour of this text. i would stress the importance of action in this area in order to ensure safe and high-quality consumption and to protect the health of european consumers.
in writing. ‒ in 2013, the european commission proposed a council regulation on maximum permitted levels (mrls) of radioactive contamination of food following a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency. a large majority of the european parliament has accepted high thresholds for radioactive contamination of food in the event of a nuclear accident in europe. the maximum permitted levels of contamination cover only a small part of the food contaminated in a nuclear accident and exclude so-called less important food. these thresholds were established by the euratom expert group on the basis of an opinion of november 2012. i regret that the amendment we tabled together with the greens to divide the maximum levels by 10 has been rejected. this result is unacceptable because it endangers the health of the population and is contrary to community provisions on food safety and to the treaty provisions which call for a high level of public health to be guaranteed. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to develop market-based financing at the expense of bank financing. these proposals can be a factor of instability and risk. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation because the capital markets union (cmu) should provide new and more efficient ways to channel savings to small commercial enterprises and protect cross-border investors in the eu.
in writing. ‒ this capital markets union is expected to develop market-based financing at the expense of bank financing, which can be a major factor of instability and lead to many other risks, including securitisation. i abstained.
in writing. the european union has set out to develop market-based financing of enterprises, taking into account the fact that 75% of the financing of european enterprises and smes comes from bank loans, compared with only 25% in the united states. the aim is therefore to promote a 'quality securitisation' which is puzzling when one knows that lehman brothers securitised products were rated triple a a few weeks before the bank collapsed. this capital markets union must also strengthen investment banks and thus their de facto influence in financing the economy, even though there is a regrettable over-reliance on bank financing. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to establish a capital markets union. the commission wants to encourage direct financing for smes by simplifying the rules for raising funds and by relaunching securitisation or venture capital. the integration of smes into this type of financing mechanism risks fuelling the financial bubble and increasing the risk of a stock market crash similar to the famous subprime crisis. above all, the use of these mechanisms reflects the commission's inability to reorient the activities of banking institutions towards the financing of enterprises. without a large law separating commercial and retail banking, coupled with a legal and fiscal framework that provides incentives, the financial flow from banks to businesses will remain limited. that is why i abstained on this text, pending concrete proposals.
in writing. ‒ the serious consequences of the 2008 crisis have illustrated the fragility of the european financial system. it is now vital to boost investment in enterprises, and in particular smes, in the long term. building a genuine capital markets union covering the 28 member states would be a significant step. it would help to mobilise more investment for smes and attract more international investment to europe. above all, it would make the financial system more stable by diversifying sources of financing, as the crisis has shown that companies are too dependent on the banking system. this resolution lays the foundations for the construction of this union. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is parliament's contribution to the debate on the construction of a capital markets union launched by the european commission. the commission's findings clearly show that investment in the real economy in europe has been declining for several decades, despite a significant increase in the size of the european and international financial sector over the same period. this situation persists even though there is a large reserve of dormant capital, notably held by the insurance sector, which could be used more efficiently. in this context, the establishment of a capital markets union could create a coherent regulatory environment across the union and bring capital markets closer to smes with a view to stimulating financing of the real economy. such a project should be based on a more efficient allocation of savings, on a better mitigation of risks, in particular cross-border risks, and on the existence of an effective complementary channel for financing the real economy. i believe that there is a need to boost investment, and therefore innovation and the creation of wealth and jobs in europe, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament supports the pragmatic and proportionate approach pursued by the european commission to achieve a capital markets union by 2019. the capital markets union will be a 'decisive' element of a wider strategy to support growth in europe through a 'diversification' of the channels of financing the real economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the construction of a capital markets union (cmu). the resolution notes that investment in the real economy has been declining for several years and is heavily dependent on banks. the creation of a cmu would increase the diversification of financing and investment by firms through a cmu independent of the european banking system and would respond to the need for non-bank financing to stimulate growth. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the construction of a capital markets union because, in the face of a decline in investment in the real economy in europe, the creation of such a union would make it easier to finance companies, and in particular smes, thus promoting their growth and job creation. moreover, by establishing a regulated and controlled capital markets union, the european union would have additional means of protecting itself against a possible financial or economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the capital markets union is a set of proposals to diversify the financing of businesses, which are heavily dependent on banks in europe. the commission intends to develop direct financing on the capital markets, particularly for smes, by simplifying the rules for raising funds, relaunching securitisation or promoting venture capital. i am reserved about the need to relaunch market financing, in particular securitisation, which has been the main factor of instability in the recent crises. banks must return to their role as lenders to the real economy, which they are no longer doing satisfactorily. for the banks to play their part, what is needed first of all is a real separation of commercial and retail banking, and a regulation of the markets which will enable them to recover their vocation, to raise capital to finance their development, and not to encourage speculation. we must therefore be reserved, waiting for concrete proposals. so i refrained. i have, however, supported the amendments which denounce austerity and the risks of bubbles, which call for the separation of banks and which focus on smes.
in writing. - i abstained. the aim of the proposal is to diversify the financing of companies, which are too closely linked to banks, by developing direct financing on the capital markets and simplifying the rules for raising funds. the aim here is therefore to present the commission's future plans in this field. we believe that some of the measures envisaged are questionable, in particular the securitisation which has been a factor of instability leading to the recent crises. i am also very reserved about the role of banks with my colleagues. they have taken on tasks that should not be theirs. they should be satisfied with their primary mission, lending to the real economy. to this end, it is necessary to separate commercial and retail banks by regulating the markets. speculation must be curbed. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i have, however, supported some amendments which i think are in the right direction, such as those denouncing austerity, calling for the separation of the banks and insisting on the necessary support for smes.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. this is a first step towards the creation of a capital markets union, which could prove to be an asset or a threat. we are waiting for concrete proposals, so we prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that 'investment in the real economy in europe has been declining for several decades', despite 'a significant increase in the size of the european and international financial sector over the same period'. unfortunately, it does not conclude that the financialisation of the economy is detrimental to the real economy. the resolution, which is steeped in neoliberal mantras, calls for a diversification of the financial system, following the example of the united states, and for greater integration of capital markets. i vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to develop financing through markets at the expense of bank financing. these proposals can be a factor of instability and risk. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to develop financing through markets at the expense of bank financing. these proposals can be a factor of instability and risk. i abstained, not wanting to weaken the european economic fabric, which is still struggling to recover from the crisis that began in 2008.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the opinion of the econ committee on the commission's forthcoming draft on the capital markets union. the aim is to develop alternative financing methods to bank financing, in particular for smes, by facilitating access to capital markets (securitisation, venture capital, stock markets). the instability of markets has been one of the main causes of the major crises of recent years. moreover, banks have since then cleaned up their balance sheets to a large extent and are receiving considerable support (tltros from the ecb) to fulfil their role as lenders to the real economy. we must force them to do so and to stop playing the markets by establishing a real separation of investment and retail banking. this would be the real way to stimulate investment, which would be less risky than the capital markets union. the report, while providing for some nuances in relation to the main lines of the commission's green paper, does not call into question the principle of this policy. so it is wise to abstain.
in writing. capital markets union is the latest whim of the europeanists who want to emulate the american model. the union has taken the view that 75% of the financing of european enterprises and smes comes from bank loans, compared with only 25% in the united states, and has therefore set out to develop the financing of enterprises by the markets. the aim is therefore to promote a 'quality securitisation', which is puzzling, given that lehman brothers securitised products were rated triple a a few weeks before the bank collapsed. it deplores the fragmentation of the credit market, but this is only the consequence of a monetary area which is inherently suboptimal and against which a european directive can do nothing. the text will also strengthen investment banks to keep the capital markets alive and thus ultimately strengthen the weight of banks in financing the economy, contrary to the initial problem of too great a dependence on bank financing. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ capital markets union is the latest whim of the europeanists who want to emulate the american model. the union has taken the view that 75% of the financing of european enterprises and smes comes from bank loans, compared with only 25% in the united states. the aim is therefore to promote a 'quality securitisation', which is puzzling, given that lehman brothers securitised products were rated triple a a few weeks before the bank collapsed. it deplores the fragmentation of the credit market, but this is only the consequence of a monetary area which is inherently suboptimal and against which a european directive can do nothing. in addition, this text will strengthen investment banks to keep the capital markets alive and thus ultimately strengthens the weight of banks in financing the economy, contrary to the initial problem of too great a dependence on bank financing ... i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve access to capital markets and develop sources of finance, while building on existing financing mechanisms (banks), the european parliament adopted a proposal for the construction of a capital markets union. i voted in favour of this report and i stress the importance of this proposal in the wake of the financial crisis and the instability of the banking sector.
in writing. ‒ with this motion for a resolution, the european parliament has expressed its desire to create a coherent regulatory environment across the union to encourage the development of capital markets. i support such a project, which would enable europe to respond better to financial crises similar to the one we experienced in 2007 and to respond to the problem of long-term investment. the text defines three priorities which form the development axis of the project: more efficient allocation of savings, better risk mitigation through deepening cross-border markets, and the creation of complementary channels to finance the real economy.
in writing. ‒ the capital markets union is a set of proposals to diversify the financing of companies, which are heavily dependent on banks in europe (almost 80% of the total). to this end, the commission intends to develop direct financing on the capital markets, in particular for smes, by simplifying the rules for raising funds, relaunching securitisation or promoting venture capital. we are not sure whether it is appropriate to relaunch market financing, particularly securitisation, which was the main factor in the instability of the last crises. banks must return to their role as lenders to the real economy, which they are no longer doing satisfactorily. they should be able to do so, having cleaned up their balance sheets since the end of the crisis. for the banks to play their part, what is needed first of all is a real separation of commercial and retail banking, and market regulation that will enable them to regain their vocation. the capital markets union, led by commissioner jonathan hill, a former city lobbyist, looks like a promotion of shadow banking and the investment banking model that led to the subprime mortgage crisis. i abstained until i had concrete proposals.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the construction of the capital market within the european union. a whole program... the text, unsurprisingly, takes a neoliberal approach. while austerity policies are plunging the countries of the european union into a recession which is particularly affecting the most vulnerable social groups, we are being offered a text which merely acknowledges the crisis and offers only a vague 'moralisation' of financial capitalism, while calling for it to be developed even further and made ever more 'attractive'. always the same dogmatism. it is time to put a stop to excessive speculation in the financial markets, which only brings crises, mass redundancies and growing inequalities to the real economy. a european approach should finally allow for the regulation of these capital markets which have gone mad and give priority to public infrastructure and investment, but also to smes, and encourage long-term commitment, to the benefit of all. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ the european commission will adopt in the coming months a european agenda on security for 2015-2020 which will address the various actions to be implemented to increase security in europe. radicalism, terrorist financing, cooperation between europol and other european agencies, and arms trafficking will be the main topics on the agenda. the subjects on this agenda seem to be moving in the right direction, although i have very strong doubts about the question of radicalism. while many young europeans, and especially many french, are joining terrorist organisations, particularly to fight in syria, the european commission's feeble attempts to put an end to this phenomenon have all failed. the union cannot effectively combat this scourge unless it gives the states back control of their borders. i am in favour of the re-establishment of internal frontiers as a prerequisite, so i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this programme which aims to provide the eu with a general framework to guarantee the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, whose englishness seems to me totally counterproductive.
in writing. this text is to adopt a resolution on the european security programme. however, this resolution shows the naïve approach of the european socialists and greens who want to "perpetuate" the fundamental rights of criminals. it is intended to limit the possibilities for the police to prosecute criminals and terrorists. this well-thought-out text shows either the real naivete of these meps or the stupidity of such measures. it also considers the problem of crime only through inequality or poverty, thus finding an excuse for criminals and terrorists (when it is not the extreme right...). on the contrary, we must strengthen the possibilities for prosecuting criminals, implement a zero-tolerance policy and control our borders more strictly. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution deals with the european security programme. it contains elements which go beyond the competences conferred on the union by the treaty of lisbon and, with them, the sovereignty of each member state. while security is a major issue requiring cooperation between nations, it must not become a pretext for the concentration of power in the hands of technocrats who have proven themselves incompetent and failures. the union's immigration policy is a failure, as is its policy against the jihadist networks and the islamic state. these criminal networks thrive mainly because of the absence of border controls within the schengen area. the european software is deficient and therefore it should be replaced by a return to national sovereignty, combined with european cooperation where necessary. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the european parliament's position on the european agenda on security for the period 2015-2020, as proposed by the commission. in view of the complex, hybrid, asymmetrical, unconventional, international and difficult to predict threats to internal security, as highlighted by the recent attempted terrorist attacks in france, a european response is needed that is coherent, comprehensive, multi-layered and coordinated. i believe that the priority given by the european commission to combat terrorism, violent extremism, crossborder organised crime and cybercrime is going in the right direction. in this type of debate, it is even more necessary to strike a balance between respect for fundamental rights and security requirements. i think that this resolution is unbalanced in this respect and that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ last april, the commission adopted its european security agenda, a key strategic document which aims to set the broad guidelines for the european union's internal and external security policy. the european parliament's resolution is our contribution to this programme. it sets out clearly the priorities of our parliament. in the light of the serious challenges and threats terrorism, violent extremism, cross-border organised crime and cybercrime facing the european union today, the european union needs to act in a coordinated manner and strengthen its efforts. in particular, our resolution strongly calls for more transparency, accountability and democratic control in security policies, an optimisation of the use and implementation of the legal instruments in force in the union, a more unified intersectoral and interagency approach and a better reconciliation of the internal and external dimensions of security.
in writing. ‒ while the commission presented its roadmap on security last april, it was essential that parliament contributed to it. i have therefore supported parliament's resolution on the european security programme, because i believe it is a balanced response between security requirements on the one hand and fundamental rights requirements on the other. the complex and evolving threats to the internal security of the union today require more than ever a comprehensive, coherent and coordinated response at european and international level. the unprecedented nature of the current crisis requires, among other things, an upgrade of european security and judicial systems, tools adapted to the media and digital jihad that allows terrorists to reach every point of european and international territory, as well as an offensive against the financial flows that fuel the fight against terrorism. however, we cannot be satisfied with a purely repressive approach, since the causes of this phenomenon are complex and inextricably linked to social, economic and even psychological factors. any solution requires measures to prevent radicalisation before it leads to violence.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this text on the european security programme. the programme is designed to strengthen security in europe. the commission itself has become aware of the problems caused by islamists and jihadists returning from the war zones of the middle east. i have long been concerned about the inaction, or at least the ineffective action, of the european union on these issues, as evidenced by its inability to stop the flow of illegal immigrants into europe, or even to prevent the islamic state fighters from returning to our lands. radicalism, the financing of terrorism and police cooperation are certainly at the heart of this programme, but none of the measures or solutions put forward convinces me, because they are so out of date and not ambitious.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution calling for a european security agenda. this resolution did not fulfil its original purpose, which was to defend the citizens of europe. the commission's initial view was that security was a danger to fundamental rights, so the text was biased at the source and could not be voted on as it stood. that resolution was adopted, and i regret it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the socialist resolution on the european security programme because the credulous and thoughtless approach of the socialists and liberals to the subject of security is very disappointing when we consider the high level of threat which the union is unfortunately facing today. if we want to be able to fight crime effectively, we must first join forces and cooperate with the police, not distrust them as the socialists suggest.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the european security programme. this text is completely detached from this world. firstly, it is aimed at further undermining the sovereignty of the member states in matters of freedom, security and justice. the commission is also proposing an unacceptable lax approach to the fight against terrorism and illegal immigration. in paragraph 40 in particular, the text 'rejects any link' between these two phenomena, whereas this link is obvious and the islamic state terrorists themselves have announced on several occasions that some of their members are infiltrating europe via migrant boats in the mediterranean. paragraph 26 opposes the use of surveillance drones, particularly in north africa, as a tool in the fight against immigration and organised crime networks involved in human trafficking. why dismiss that possibility? they don't tell us. it is clear that the left will oppose any effective measure in the fight against illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the internal security programme reminds the european commission of the existence of fundamental rights. it emphasises the economic and social causes of organised crime and terrorism, in particular 'austerity measures'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. however, it is not sufficiently critical of the internal security policy pursued so far, despite the strengthening of the european arsenal of means to combat terrorism and, to a lesser extent, organised crime. it has not allowed them to be reduced. this is what snowden explained to the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the right wing is seizing the opportunity to call for 'strengthening security at the union's borders', 'improving the capacity to report content on the internet'. i am voting against 'harmonisation' on the basis of absolute security at the expense of the rule of law and against strengthening the powers of institutions without democratic control.
in writing. ‒ the european commission will adopt in the coming months a european agenda on security for 2015-2020, which will address the various actions to be implemented to increase security in europe. radicalism, terrorist financing, cooperation between europol and other european agencies, and arms trafficking will be the main topics on the agenda. the issues discussed in this agenda seem to be moving in the right direction, even though there are very strong doubts about the question of radicalism. indeed, while many young europeans and french are joining terrorist organizations to commit crimes, the european commission's attempts to put an end to this phenomenon have all failed. it is clear that the union is not pursuing an effective policy to combat this scourge. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. the purpose of this vote is to adopt a resolution on the european agenda on security. however, this resolution takes a naive approach from the european socialists and greens who want to perpetuate the fundamental rights of criminals. it is intended to limit the possibilities for the police to prosecute criminals and terrorists. it's an unbearable position. in view of this, it is of course necessary to strengthen the legal possibilities for prosecuting criminals instead of prohibiting the authorities and the police from investigating. this text also practices the culture of the excuse by explaining terrorism and crime only through the prism of inequality and poverty. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text on the european security programme because it does not live up to the challenges. i have in particular opposed the provisions to reject or weaken the pnr (passenger name record) directive on air passengers. today, terrorists and jihadists benefit from the lack of sharing of pnr data, preferring the least direct possible air routes to and from training and combat areas. the implementation of a european pnr as soon as possible is therefore vital.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this vote is to adopt a resolution on the european security agenda. however, this resolution takes a naive approach from the european socialists and greens who want to perpetuate the fundamental rights of criminals. it is intended to limit the possibilities for the police to prosecute criminals and terrorists. it's an unbearable position. in view of this, it is of course necessary to strengthen the legal possibilities for prosecuting criminals instead of prohibiting the authorities and the police from investigating. this text also practices the culture of the excuse by explaining terrorism and crime only through the prism of inequality and poverty. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ ensuring the internal and external security of the union is one of the main priorities of the european institutions and the member states. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the european security programme. however, i preferred to abstain on this report because the idea of security that emerges does not correspond entirely to the expectations of my political group in the field of security. the text places particular emphasis on respect for fundamental rights at the expense of strengthening and enforcing security measures.
in writing. ‒ this resolution, which adopts a balanced and comprehensive approach to security, is a victory for the s&d group. the text calls for the establishment of a genuine european internal security area, which ensures respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. in this sense, it is essential to carry out a regular evaluation of the implementation of the european security agenda, through increased transparency and democratic control. the resolution stresses the added value of the european union in supporting member states in the face of complex and evolving threats, which require a coordinated response. they firmly reject any link between immigration, islam and terrorism. they also stress the importance of addressing the root causes of crime and radicalisation (including inequality and discrimination) in the context of social, cultural, employment and education policies, not just security. while there are many advances in this text, i regret the vote on two epp amendments which welcome the priority given to border control and which advocate an approach based solely on emergency and repression to combat terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the report on the situation in yemen contains very positive elements, including the condemnation of the interference in that country. saudi arabia has decided to intervene in defiance of yemeni sovereignty by increasing bombing on the territory of its neighbor. it also called for an internal solution to the conflict, avoiding as far as possible harmful external influences. however, this report commits a serious error in interfering in french internal affairs by condemning the negotiations on arms sales between france and other regional powers. this relationship is also sometimes too rigid. it is not for the union to choose between sunnis and shiites, between iran and saudi arabia. this text contains anti-militarist elements that are out of place, international politics mismatched with angelism or ideology. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ the situation in yemen is extremely complex and while this resolution calls for an internal solution, the eu is once again using its right of interference, which it is already abusing too much: i abstained.
in writing. one hundred days after the start of the saudi offensive against yemen and the massacre of hundreds of innocent civilians, the european parliament has finally decided to speak out about these attacks and to call for their immediate end through a motion for a resolution. however, even if the resolution proposes an internal solution to the conflict and calls for humanitarian aid, this is still impossible in the current state of affairs in view of the blockade imposed by saudi arabia. moreover, as usual, it does not hesitate to interfere in the national affairs of countries whereas we should not take a position in such a conflict between sunnis and shiites, nor condemn or support the actions of the saudi arabian coalition or the houthi revolution. i therefore decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the situation in yemen is very delicate, as it is the receptacle of shocks from sunni/shia powers. the saudi-led coalition is made up of egypt and morocco (countries with which we wish to have good diplomatic relations). opposite, the houthi minority is backed by iran. so in this situation, we cannot take sides. moreover, saudi arabia's support was requested by the yemeni president himself, raising doubts about the existence of any interference. the motion for a resolution, while advocating an internal solution to the conflict, falls into the trap of unilateral moral condemnation and a form of antimilitarism that is out of date. i abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ tensions between the yemeni government and houthi rebels and the major democratic crisis have plunged the country into chaos. the situation is aggravated by the intervention of a coalition led by saudi arabia, which imposes a naval blockade with dramatic effects. nearly 3,000 people have been killed since the start of hostilities and an estimated 20 million people are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. the country's historical heritage is also under threat. this situation poses a serious threat to the security of the region and action is needed more than ever. the resolution stresses the extreme gravity of the situation and calls for a humanitarian truce to help the civilian population, particularly with foodstuffs vital to their survival. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution reiterates the european parliament's support for yemen and its people in the face of the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in the country following a civil war between houthi shiite rebel groups and pro-government forces backed by a saudi arabia-led coalition. parliament urged all parties to put an immediate end to the use of violence and to resolve their differences through dialogue and consultation. it is further necessary for regional actors to establish constructive contacts with the parties present in yemen in order to de-escalate the crisis and avoid any further escalation of regional instability. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report on the situation in yemen. it contains some very positive elements, such as the condemnation of interference in that country. thus, saudi arabia decided to intervene in defiance of yemeni sovereignty by indiscriminately bombing the territory of a foreign state. it also called for an internal solution to the conflict to be sought, avoiding as far as possible harmful external influences. however, this report makes a serious mistake by interfering in the affairs of another sovereign state, france, by condemning the latter's negotiations on arms sales with other regional powers. nevertheless, this relationship is sometimes too rigid: it is not a question of choosing between sunnis and shiites, between iran and saudi arabia. in addition, anti-militarist elements remain very prominent in this text, although they have no place there: international politics is neither evangelical nor ideological.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in yemen. the resolution recalls the concerns about the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in the country and reiterates its support for the sovereignty and independence of yemen. the resolution also condemns the actions of houthi tribes and the terrorist attacks by al-qaeda and daesh. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation in yemen. the violence and terrorist attacks faced by civil society can no longer continue. urgent humanitarian aid measures must be organized for the population who have lost access to food or health care. the various parties must, through dialogue and negotiation, respond to the people's calls for democracy, respect for human rights and tribal differences in order to restore lasting peace in the country.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the situation in yemen. it is true that the text advocates an 'internal' solution to the conflict in yemen and calls for humanitarian aid. however, we see that interference is once again present and that the european union is trying to mediate in an arrogant way.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. although the text encourages the yemeni authorities to find an internal solution to the conflict, which we support, the evidence of attempts by the eu to interfere in the affairs of that country is blatant, and we are formally opposed to this. we therefore prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the situation in the country has worsened since the houthis took over the capital sanaa; president hadi has been under house arrest since september 21st. the resolution condemns the airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition and the naval blockade it has imposed on yemen, which have killed thousands of people and further destabilised the country. this intervention has also created the conditions for the expansion of terrorist and extremist organisations such as daesh. it stressed the need to coordinate humanitarian action under the auspices of the united nations. i am voting for this resolution which clearly denounces the actions of saudi arabia and is in line with the un.
in writing. ‒ there are positive elements in this report, such as the condemnation of the interference in this country. thus, saudi arabia decided to intervene in defiance of yemeni sovereignty by indiscriminately bombing the territory of a foreign state. it also called for an internal solution to the conflict to be sought, avoiding as far as possible harmful external influences. however, this report makes a serious mistake by interfering in the affairs of another sovereign state, france, by condemning the latter's negotiations on arms sales with other regional powers. however, this relationship is sometimes too rigid: it is not a question of choosing between sunnis and shiites, between iran and saudi arabia. in addition, anti-militaristic elements remain very prominent in this text, although they have no place in it: international politics is neither evangelical nor ideological. i abstained.
in writing. one hundred days after the start of the saudi offensive against yemen and the massacre of hundreds of innocent civilians, the european parliament has finally decided to speak out about these attacks and to call for their immediate end through a motion for a resolution. however, while the latter advocates an internal solution to the ongoing conflict in yemen and calls for the delivery of necessary and even vital humanitarian aid to the hundreds of thousands of refugees in the country - aid which has been made impossible for the time being by the blockade imposed by saudi arabia and its coalition - it reveals a futile and so inappropriate attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of a ravaged country. it is not a matter of "taking sides" in a conflict with both ethnic and religious facets, between sunnis and shiites, both of whom are supported by outside powers, nor is it a matter of unilaterally condemning the actions of the coalition or the houthi rebellion. the interference, the looting and the dismantling of national diplomacies are all reasons for abstaining, as i did, on a motion for a resolution which also contains good observations and calls for internal dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in yemen. this resolution condemns the terrorist attacks perpetrated by the islamic state which have killed and injured hundreds of innocent people. it also recalls that al-qaida in the arabian peninsula (aqap) has been able to take advantage of the deteriorating political and security situation in yemen by expanding its presence and increasing the number and scale of its terrorist attacks. the recent developments in the conflict in yemen pose serious risks to the stability of the region, in particular with regard to the horn of africa, the red sea and the middle east more generally.
in writing. ‒ one hundred days after the start of the saudi offensive against yemen and the massacre of hundreds of innocent civilians, the european parliament has finally decided to speak out about these attacks and to call for their immediate end through a motion for a resolution. however, while the latter advocates an internal solution to the ongoing conflict in yemen and calls for the delivery of necessary and even vital humanitarian aid to the hundreds of thousands of refugees in the country, aid which has so far been made impossible by the blockade imposed by saudi arabia and its coalition, it reveals a futile and so inappropriate attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of a ravaged country. it is not a matter of "taking sides" in a conflict with both ethnic and religious facets, between sunnis and shiites, both of whom are supported by outside powers, nor is it a matter of unilaterally condemning the actions of the coalition or the houthi rebellion. the interference, the looting and the dismantling of national diplomacies are all reasons for abstaining, as i did, on a motion for a resolution which also contains good observations and calls for internal dialogue.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the worrying instability in the country and the rapidly deteriorating political, security and humanitarian situation in yemen, the european parliament decided to react. i voted in favour of the resolution by parliament denouncing the present situation and calling on the member states to react.
in writing. ‒ the internal solution to the conflict in yemen advocated by this resolution, which also calls for humanitarian aid, is a step in the right direction. only the arrogant interference of the european union's mediators in the affairs of sovereign states forces me to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the peillon report on security challenges in the middle east and north africa does not advocate any change in the union's external policy. while the consequences of european diplomacy in the middle east, particularly in syria, are disastrous and a change of course is essential, the peillon report does not propose any change in foreign policy. after more than four years of war in syria, it is time to re-establish diplomatic relations with the syrian authorities, to stop aiding and arming the terrorist groups that are rampant on syrian territory, and to help the syrian army to fight these groups, whether it is the islamic state, the syrian branch of al-qaeda (front al-nusra) or others.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ this text is quite revealing of the eu's diplomacy, which is at least risky: i therefore voted against it.
in writing. this report on security challenges in the middle east and north africa and prospects for political stability is concerned about the destabilisation of the middle east generated by the ongoing conflicts in the region. however, it does not take into account the root causes of the western-led interventions in iraq and libya. moreover, the report treats egypt not as a partner but as interfering in its national politics and in particular in its fight against islamism. of course, we are being offered more and more eu intervention at the expense of the member states, under the guise of humanitarian action and the defence of human rights. the eu and its states would do well to be more attentive to their other partners, such as qatar or china in this case... for all these reasons, i have decided against your text.
in writing. ‒ vincent peillon's report focuses on security challenges in the middle east and north africa. the text deplores the effects of causes it cherishes: it rightly condemns the destabilisation of the middle east fuelled by the conflicts in syria, iraq and libya, but praises interference and human rights, which are two moral causes of the imperialisms that have been at the origin of these conflicts. the security issues presented in this report are also another pretext for strengthening the union's military and diplomatic prerogatives to the detriment of the member states. finally, and full of irony and double-talk, egypt, a country that is effectively fighting the development of islamist terrorism on its soil, is also being singled out for the famous cases of "human rights violations" against the muslim brotherhood. for all these reasons, i voted against this scandalous text, which further discredits the european union on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ the european union's southern neighbourhood is in a serious security crisis. the mass killings of christians, which go hand in hand with the hegemony of daesh in the region, are events of intolerable atrocity. we must have a coordinated approach in the region, because one member state alone cannot change the situation. stability in the region is crucial to the security of our citizens. i would like to stress the importance of the union for the mediterranean in this context. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a common approach to restoring security and stability in the middle east and north africa.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to diagnose the various security challenges in the middle east and north africa, as well as the current prospects for political stability in the region. parliament called on the european commission, the european external action service and the member states to address the causes of the rapid deterioration of the political and security situation in the region, whose stability is fundamental to the security of the european union. considering also that the persistent violations of the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, in particular the situation of christians in the east, must call for resolute action by the governments of the region with the support of the european union and its member states. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report highlights the many challenges facing the world and europe. the union's external policy must take account of this new reality. it is only by having policies coordinated with the other side of the mediterranean that we will succeed in responding to the various crises that this part of the world is experiencing. stability will come through cooperation, particularly with states in democratic transition, the best example of which today is tunisia. we must do everything we can to support and facilitate this transition, this anchoring of democracy.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report on the future security challenges in the middle east and north africa. the rapporteur never takes account of past experience of european union diplomacy. mr peillon does not propose to change the union's foreign policy, even though it is the cause of many disasters and diplomatic tensions, particularly with russia. mr peillon is also the champion of interference, the culmination of the globalist and europeanist ideology that has been born of the distortion of human rights. in each case, the policy pursued by the adherents of this ideology has led to more instability than prosperity for third countries. this report advocates the violation of the sovereignty of the states of the middle east, something i want to oppose strongly, considering that the latter represent partners, not countries to be guided.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, vincent peillon, on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and the prospect of political stability. for several months, the situation in these countries has been deteriorating, largely due to fanatical terrorists from daesh. the report also welcomes the participation of some member states in the international coalition against terrorist groups. it also called on the union to affirm its commitment at all stages of the region's economic development. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on security challenges in the middle east and north africa and prospects for political stability. the destabilisation of the region caused by the conflicts in syria, yemen, libya and iraq has seriously deteriorated the living conditions of the population and threatens the security of neighbouring countries. in the face of this situation, the european union must increase its pressure on authoritarian regimes and remain permanently present in order to establish a dialogue for the long-term stabilisation of the region, based on the principles of democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and the prospects for political stability. this report is a typical example of the european union cursing the consequences of phenomena whose causes it cherishes. the report rightly expresses concern about the destabilisation of the middle east caused by the conflicts in syria, iraq and libya, but never addresses the real causes of this situation - such as western interventions in these countries. security issues are once again being used as a pretext to increase the eu's prerogatives to the detriment of the member states. the report 'expresses its full support for the implementation of concrete actions by the union in the framework of a strong csdp aimed at promoting stability and security in the car countries' and 'invites the member states of the union to pool their resources and strengthen existing mechanisms (frontex, eurosur).' the text calls for the integration of the acp countries into the common economic area and visa liberalisation. the aim seems to be the eventual accession of these countries to the eu.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the european union is rightly concerned about the progress of the islamic state in syria, libya and iraq, but it has never acknowledged europe's responsibility for destabilising these three countries. worse, it calls on bashar al-assad to "hold accountable", when he is one of our last shields against the murderous madness of the islamic state. on the other hand, this report calls for the eu to have a genuine foreign policy and thereby encroaches on the sovereignty of the member states. finally, it is wrong to criticize egypt when this great state has waged a merciless fight against the islamic state, and should be considered a leading ally.
in writing. - i voted against this text of risky diplomacy. it emphasizes the eu's interference in this geographical area, which is contrary to our principles. the real question is, why have we gotten to this point in this part of the world?
in writing. ‒ the peillon report comes at a time of great instability and upheaval in the geopolitical balance in the middle east and north africa. the text, which starts from the alarming observation that the european union's political weight is inversely proportional to its economic weight, provides essential elements for strengthening the eu and its values in the face of the coming crises. to achieve this, the report strengthens multilateral relations with regional partners, as well as bilateral relations through high-level political representation by member states' foreign ministers. this political dimension is complemented by the necessary cooperation in the fields of security, education and culture, without neglecting the urgent need for a thorough dialogue with civil societies and a commitment to our democratic values and respect for human rights. i voted for this report because it brings the political will of the eu, which is currently lacking on the political and international scene, to the fore, while drawing the lines of force for a stabilising presence in the south of its neighbour.
in writing. ‒ despite some criticism of past policies and renewal of political, economic and social approaches, the vincent peillon report remains stuck in the same rut, maintaining the eu's security and defence policy modelled on the us (and nato) foreign policy model, with military solutions that are not even operational, as the strategy against daesh remains hesitant and largely led by coalitions of dubious reliability. it is a determined war that must be waged against daesh, under the auspices of the united nations, with all the countries convinced that this organization represents the threat of a new confessional state in one of the regions where theocracies are multiplying. the report supports the strengthening of free trade agreements as a solution to political instability in the middle east and north africa. the right wing has come to add its final touch by welcoming the military strikes carried out by the international coalition and adding its concerns for the defence of the 'interests of the union', de facto at the expense of human rights, all in order to defend a 'true common defence'. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the peillon report on security challenges in the middle east and north africa does not advocate any change in eu foreign policy. while the consequences of european diplomacy in the middle east are disastrous and a change of course is essential, the peillon report does not propose any change in foreign policy. this report, besides being a pure product of globalist thinking, proposes to follow the solution of interference which brings more instability than prosperity. this report is a typical demonstration of the eu's risky diplomacy in the middle east, where it systematically violates the sovereignty of states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this report on security challenges in the middle east and north africa and prospects for political stability is concerned about the destabilisation of the middle east generated by the ongoing conflicts in the region. it never addresses the root causes of this destabilisation, namely the western and self-interested interventions in iraq and libya. the solutions put forward in this text only go in the direction of a dramatic inflation of the powers and competences of the european union to the detriment of the diplomacy and defence of each member state. instead of seeing egypt as a necessary and effective partner in the fight against terrorism, the eu is now meddling in egypt's affairs and denouncing the way the country is dealing with the islamist threat: yet another proof of the eu's intolerable political interference under the guise of 'moral' and 'humanitarian' intervention, which, when it leads to military interventions, is precisely at the origin of the chronic instability of the region. federalist logic depriving the member states of their diplomatic prerogatives, political interference and lack of respect for sovereign states are all reasons why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and the prospects for political stability. the report, which is now before the european parliament, calls on the member states to redouble their efforts to welcome asylum seekers and to deal with the cases already lodged without delay. i think it would be preferable if safe camps under the auspices of the united nations could accommodate people fleeing conflict close to their countries of origin, so that they do not risk their lives trying to cross the mediterranean, are not handed over to unscrupulous smugglers and do not end up stranded in the slums of europe.
in writing. ‒ this report on security challenges in the middle east and north africa and prospects for political stability is concerned about the destabilisation of the middle east generated by the ongoing conflicts in the region. it never addresses the root causes of this destabilisation, namely the western and self-interested interventions in iraq and libya. the solutions put forward in this text only go in the direction of a dramatic inflation of the powers and competences of the european union to the detriment of the diplomacy and defence of each member state. instead of seeing egypt as a necessary and effective partner in the fight against terrorism, the eu is now meddling in egypt's affairs and denouncing the way the country is dealing with the islamist threat: yet another proof of the eu's intolerable political interference under the guise of 'moral' and 'humanitarian' intervention, which, when it leads to military interventions, is precisely at the origin of the chronic instability of the region. federalist logic depriving the member states of their diplomatic prerogatives, political interference and lack of respect for sovereign states are all reasons why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the increase in conflicts in the middle east and north africa and the growing political and social instability in these regions, the european parliament adopted an own-initiative report on the security challenges and prospects for political stability in these regions. i voted in favour of this text. it is important to identify possible actions to be implemented and to encourage member states to cooperate in order to help the political, economic and social stabilisation of these regions.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on security challenges in the middle east and north africa (moan), for which vincent peillon is rapporteur, draws an alarming conclusion on the situation in the region, which is at war with the islamic state group and is hit by acts of terrorism. this resolution, which i fully support, calls on the european union to strengthen its political support for this region, which is now under threat as a wind of freedom swept through it during the arab spring. strengthening its position by increasing the presence of its representatives, organising more frequent summits with the arab league, establishing better cooperation in many areas (prevention of radicalisation, culture, education, security), dialogue with civil society, defending human rights and women's rights are all challenges that the european union must address. it must now speak with one voice to exist diplomatically and become a major political actor. the report envisages continuing and strengthening the union's cooperation with the nafo countries and proposes a new paradigm: that of genuine political cooperation which goes beyond economic issues.
in writing. ‒ this report by vincent peillon on security challenges in the middle east and north africa is a typical example of an eu that curses the consequences of phenomena whose causes it cherishes. the report rightly expresses concern about the destabilisation of the middle east caused by the conflicts in syria, iraq and libya, but never addresses the real causes of this situation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. security issues are also once again being used as a pretext to increase eu prerogatives to the detriment of diplomacy and national defenses. the text is also critical of egypt, which, rather than being seen as a partner in the fight against islamist terrorism, is being singled out for its "human rights violations", which is far from constructive from a diplomatic point of view.
in writing. ‒ the report starts from the fact that the eu is partly responsible for the clear failure of the policies pursued in north africa and the middle east in recent years, with the multiplication of conflicts (iraq, syria, libya, yemen, etc.), the spread of jihadist areas and the security role of the governments of the region. that is a good start, but it is the only point of agreement i could find. it does not say anything about the responsibility of certain member states or of the european union's "allies" (the united states, israel, the arab states). conflicts are seen mainly through the lens of religion. the fight against terrorism is only approached from a military point of view and the management of migration flows from a security point of view. finally, the same economic recipes are always put forward: the establishment of free trade areas, the organization of the brain drain, the exploitation of natural resources... in the midst of the review of the european neighbourhood policy, this is therefore a slip in the bucket, far from the major challenges facing the region. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report underlines the importance of an external policy of the union and therefore wishes to extend the powers of the european neighbourhood policy. it is an interference in the sovereignty of the member states with the aim of depriving them of the possibility of pursuing an independent foreign policy, subjecting it totally to that of the union. the report also extends the union's 'values' to its external partners on the grounds that the union's association agreements are based on fundamental universal values and the defence of human rights, equality and human dignity. it opens the door to new waves of mass immigration, declaring itself "favourable to increased mobility within the neighbourhood area ... through facilitation of visa issuance and liberalization of visa regimes". i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i question the will of the technocrats in brussels to encroach ever more on the prerogatives of the eu member states, especially as the foreign policy pursued by brussels seems to be decided in washington.
in writing. this report on the european neighbourhood policy aims to increase the eu's competence in relations with the eu's neighbouring countries. this neighbourhood policy is in fact a policy of interfering in the internal affairs of countries neighbouring the eu and dictating to them the reforms necessary for potential and future membership of the union. it also calls for a stronger defence europe, which i strongly condemn, since this remains and must remain a national competence, especially when it comes to dealing with russia. we thought the cold war was over, but it's back in a different form thanks to the eu... finally, of course, this policy advocates free movement of people and goods within the neighbourhood area as if the eu did not already have all the difficulties in controlling movement within the schengen area itself. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. the kukan report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy is a dangerous leap forward. it was originally intended to integrate the countries of central and eastern europe when the european union was enlarged to include this area. today, ms mogherini, vice-president of the european commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, is taking this policy to the southern mediterranean and the eastern borders of ukraine. this interference by the eu is dangerous and very imprudent, given the geopolitical situation of many of the countries covered by the text. i therefore voted against mr kukan's report.
in writing. ‒ the kukan report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) aims to increase the union's competence in relation to its external policy: 'whereas the enp remains a strategic priority of the union's foreign policy; whereas the revision of the enp should be carried out with the aim of strengthening this policy and continuing efforts to achieve an overall, comprehensive and effective common foreign and security policy of the union'. the european neighbourhood policy aims at both increasing the union's profile in its area of influence, preparing the accession of new candidate states and exporting the union's 'values' without taking geopolitical realities into account. i voted against this text because i am opposed to the union's increasing power in the field of foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ one of the european union's main priorities is to guarantee the security of its citizens. there have indeed been no armed conflicts within the european borders for many years. unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the neighbourhood. we are witnessing great tensions on the borders of the union, both north and south. the european neighbourhood policy is therefore a crucial element in stabilising and securing the neighbouring regions. for this reason, the eu strategy needs to be revised and modernised. we cannot stand idly by in the face of events at our borders. it is about the security of our citizens and the stability of these regions. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to present the european parliament's position on the ongoing review of the european neighbourhood policy launched by the european commission. the european parliament is clearly in favour of a renewed policy which is more strategic, targeted, flexible and coherent, and able to respond adequately and rapidly to the needs of the neighbouring countries. given the current strategic economic and security challenges in europe's southern and eastern neighbourhood, the european neighbourhood policy must respond appropriately to fragmented national realities. the security aspect of this policy should also be strengthened, while maintaining a budget allocation of two thirds for the mediterranean and one third for the eastern partnership. i have voted in favour of this balanced report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report provides a good diagnosis of neighbourhood policy. it must be able to adapt to different situations. it cannot be the same in eastern europe, the south of the mediterranean or the caucasus. the challenges and crises are not the same. a more effective neighbourhood policy will therefore have to be based on differentiated relations between countries, in order to define and implement more appropriate and therefore more effective partnerships.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy to increase the union's powers in relation to non-eu neighbouring countries. the rapporteur stresses the importance of an external policy of the union and therefore wishes to extend the powers of the european neighbourhood policy. this is an unacceptable interference in the sovereignty of the member states, which are being deprived of the possibility of conducting their own foreign policy, or at least of being subject to the eu. the rapporteur is not content to interfere in the politics of the member states, but he also wants to impose the union's 'values' on its external partners by claiming that the union's association agreements are based on fundamental universal values, the defence of human rights, equality and human dignity. the report supports and defends a completely irrelevant immigration policy by declaring itself 'favourable to increased mobility within the neighbourhood area ... through facilitation of visa issuance and visa liberalisation'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague eduard kukan on the review of the european neighbourhood policy. the report aims to contribute to the commission's ongoing review of the outdated european neighbourhood policy (enp) by calling for an enp better adapted to today's challenges, with a clear and ambitious political vision and strategic objectives and priorities for the short, medium and long term. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy. in the face of the new challenges in southern and eastern europe, the european union must adapt to avoid destabilisation within its own member states. the dialogue between the union and its neighbours must be intensified in order to re-establish stable, secure and democratic areas for all people. while stressing the need for mutual accountability and a common commitment to the union's values and principles, future action will need to take a case-by-case approach with neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy, as this report is clearly designed with the eu enlargement in mind. the rapporteur has confirmed this on several occasions, notably by tabled an amendment aimed at strengthening the role of the commissioner for enlargement, or by calling on the high representative to draw inspiration from the european economic area in order to gradually integrate the neighbourhood countries. this is the well-known small-step technique. paragraph 58 is also revealing: 'stresses the importance of the free movement of persons and supports increased mobility within the neighbourhood area, in a safe and well-managed environment, through facilitation of visa issuance and visa liberalisation, in particular for students, young people, artists and researchers; calls on the commission to further encourage, in cooperation with the member states, partnerships for mobility within the neighbourhood and to develop the possibilities for circular migration schemes, which would open safe and legal pathways for migration.' we want even more immigration, even though the people in europe are against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which attacks the sovereignty of states in matters of foreign policy. we cannot accept an extension of the union's powers in such a strategic area. this is all the more unacceptable when dangerous proposals, particularly on immigration, are put forward, such as the idea of strengthening legal immigration.
in writing. ‒ the current upheavals in the neighbourhood in eastern and southern europe require an ambitious and strategic redefinition of our neighbourhood policy. faced with these new challenges, the eu must be able to think more politically about its action. this report responds to the plurality of expectations for european leadership, from neighbours to the crossroads of several 'close strangers'. the kukan report is a real project to promote our values, by supporting democracy and human rights, as well as the necessary revalorisation of the attractive factors proposed by the eu. on the other hand, the text stresses the need for a reconfiguration of the intelligent approach of our neighbours. the deepening of dialogue with civil society and the strengthening of the control of aid measures are in line with this. finally, as the prospect of trade and free trade agreements alone is no longer an effective lever for strengthening our partnership with the neighbourhood, the report opens up the possibility of sharing knowledge and creating networks at different levels, thus going beyond the union's economy. i voted for this report, which goes further towards establishing a safer, more democratic and more prosperous neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ the eu's european neighbourhood policy aims to reward good students, like ukraine, in the service of its neoliberal agenda. in the framework of the eastern partnership, the eu continues its cooperation with azerbaijan, where no elections have been declared free by international observers since 1993. this policy has enabled european companies, through multiple free trade agreements, to plunder these countries, particularly in the mediterranean area, leading to the impoverishment of the populations, the development of conflicts and migration. this report therefore does not take stock of these failures. even the last revision in 2011 contained better passages calling for "helping partners to build democratic, pluralistic and secular states" or stressing "the need to ensure a minimum wage". i am voting against this policy of economic and political subjugation of our neighbours in the service of the geopolitical interests of the eu and big business.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur stresses the importance of an external policy of the union and therefore wishes to extend the powers of the european neighbourhood policy. this is an unacceptable interference in the sovereignty of the member states, which are being deprived of the possibility of conducting their own foreign policy, or at least of being subject to the european union. the rapporteur is not content to interfere in the politics of the member states, but he also wants to impose the union's 'values' on its external partners by claiming that the union's association agreements are based on fundamental universal values, the defence of human rights, equality and human dignity. the report supports and defends a completely irrelevant immigration policy by declaring itself 'favourable to increased mobility within the neighbourhood area ... through facilitation of visa issuance and visa liberalisation'. the member voted against.
in writing. this report on the european neighbourhood policy aims to increase the eu's competence in relations with the eu's neighbouring countries. it is part of the same logic of interference that characterizes the eu so much to avoid having to face its own foulness. the new policy thus encourages the partner countries to submit to the structural reforms dictated by brussels in the hope of future accession to satisfy, not the interests of the member states, but those of the us external federator. these objectives must also include a strengthening of europe's defence against a designated enemy in the east. this is a real dispossession of the sovereignty of the member states in foreign affairs, who are being asked to invest in the eu's neighbourhood policy 'by harmonising their efforts'. in short, an alignment with the american vision, that of neo-colonialism which imposes its values on its "partners" until it implements free movement of people and mobility within the neighbourhood. in the face of this sheer madness, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the european neighbourhood policy (enp). the text says that the enp is now obsolete and must be adapted to the current security, economic and political challenges. the eu needs to formulate an ambitious political vision with clearly defined strategic objectives and priorities to support democracy, the rule of law, good governance, judicial reform and institution building in the eu's neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ mr kukan's report is part of the broad consultation process led by the high representative to review the european neighbourhood policy (enp). while the enp was created to promote the emergence of a 'ring of friends' around the european union, we are now faced with a 'ring of fire'. this situation of instability at our borders has dramatic humanitarian, economic and social consequences and threatens our security. in this context, the text proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection offers several lines of thought. first, the enp must be thought of in strategic terms. despite our status as a major trading partner and the accompanying measures we offer to our partners, the union's influence in the region is declining. we need a clear and coherent policy, designed for the long term and implemented with a strengthened political presence. secondly, the european union must not apply the same undifferentiated concept to all our partners: we must provide tailor-made assistance according to the aspirations of each country, and assess the progress made in concreto, by consulting civil society more widely.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates strengthening relations between the european union and neighbouring countries, with a view to future enlargements and to giving the eu greater powers in foreign policy. the eu not only seeks to dictate its sacrosanct values and economic principles, but also to impose them on as many countries as possible. the immigration part is particularly worrying: while the schengen area is already a source of trafficking of all kinds, the report would like to facilitate movement between the eu's neighbouring countries and the eu. when one considers that turkey is one of these countries and that it has a very porous border with war zones in syria, one can only wonder about the ideological blindness that presides over such recommendations that are clearly contrary to the fundamental interests of the citizens. i shall of course vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is currently carrying out a review of the european neighbourhood policy in order to better adapt it to the challenges and needs of the countries concerned and to develop an effective policy. the european parliament wanted to contribute to this reflection by proposing a review of this policy. i voted in favour of this text and i stress the need to introduce a differentiated and tailor-made approach depending on the countries targeted. the countries covered by this policy have different histories and different levels of development. a differentiated european approach would make it possible to act effectively.
in writing. ‒ since the launch of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the eu's neighbourhood has undergone significant changes and the commission recently launched a public consultation to carry out a thorough review of the enp and the principles on which it is based. i supported this report, which is one of parliament's contributions to the revision of the enp. the aim is to develop an ambitious and forward-looking neighbourhood policy; the enp must be more strategic, targeted, flexible and coherent. european support must be differentiated according to the recipient and better targeted. in terms of defending european values, it is fundamental that support for democracy, the rule of law, good governance, state building, human rights and fundamental freedoms is at the heart of the enp. at the same time, the union and the member states must continue to offer their assistance and know-how in the implementation of reforms. the new enp must also take account of the security dimension which has become more acute and has evolved significantly in the union's neighbourhood. finally, it is also a question of establishing strong partnerships with the union's 'neighbours of neighbours'.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to increase the powers of the european neighbourhood policy with the aim of establishing a genuine 'union external policy'. it follows the same logic as the previous reports aimed at establishing a defence europe. the report also makes dangerous proposals on immigration, including the idea of strengthening legal immigration. in view of these attacks on the sovereignty of the states in matters of foreign policy, the logic of increasing the union's powers and the desire for interference expressed in this text must be opposed. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ following the events of the arab spring, the renewal of the european commission and the ukrainian crisis, a review of the european neighbourhood policy was needed. the commission therefore launched a public consultation on this subject last march, to which this report intends to contribute. some of its recommendations are in the right direction: support the development of a thriving and active civil society in the union's partner countries; establish genuine freedom of movement for persons; go beyond the perennial free trade areas to meet the social aspirations of the people. however, beyond the good intentions, narrow and self-interested motivations quickly reappear in the form of the 'conditionality principle': if the countries of the european neighbourhood want to benefit from partnerships in any form, they must respect conditions, in particular economic and migration conditions. we all know what that means. the countries of the enp are thus first perceived in terms of their geopolitical interests, whether they are energy suppliers, outlets for european products or immigration gendarmes. for all these reasons, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i agree that copyright and intellectual property must evolve to take account of technological and digital progress. the report does not mention the issue of piracy or tax evasion by certain multinational firms such as google or amazon. the harmonization of copyright would be to the detriment of the protection of french authors, since french legislation is much more favourable. finally, this report goes against respect for the sovereignty of the member states. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it was the result of collective work which resulted in a balanced text, very far from the original text which was only intended to reduce copyright to nothing without at the same time protecting users. this own-initiative report, which has no legislative consequences, does, however, provide a basis for the future challenges of the directive which will be presented by the commission in the autumn.
in writing. ‒ the report starts from a simple and undeniable observation that copyright and intellectual property law need to evolve to take account of the rise of the internet and new technologies, among other things. the report raises several issues, such as the reform of intellectual property rights, in particular the infosoc directive, or the concern about the exceptions linked to panoramas, but the main focus is on the introduction of concepts from anglo-saxon law, such as copyright, and on respect for the french and continental conception of copyright. we will need to find an environment that protects creators and small authors while allowing free expression on the internet within the framework of net neutrality. finally, the report does not mention the issue of piracy and tax provisions, in particular the evasion practiced by large multinationals such as google or amazon.
in writing. ‒ reform of intellectual property law has become a strategic and power issue. france is faced with the challenge of preserving its internal conception of copyright in the face of the intrusions of anglo-saxon concepts such as "copyright". the enl group, of which i am a member, tabled two amendments which call for: - particular attention to be paid to the question of the legal regime of a single european title; - to ensure that the minimum durations prescribed by international standards are not less than those laid down by french law. finally, the report does not deal with the issues of piracy and taxation, two strategic issues. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the digital age has created new challenges in respect of copyright. it is essential to adapt our legislation to technological progress. the digital revolution allows for continuous innovation that requires special attention. however, the digitisation of the european single market cannot be done at the expense of creators. we need to ensure that authors have the protection of their rights that is appropriate for the digital age. however, care must be taken that authors are not deprived of some of their rights on the pretext of a revision of the legislation. i will be vigilant when the revised directive on the harmonisation of certain copyright is published. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the vote on this report, which is so far removed from the original text, which was only intended to reduce copyright to nothing without at the same time defending users. i voted against paragraph 46, which was an amendment i had tabled in committee and which was voted on, but it was the most effective way of getting the panorama exception out of this report. i believe that the status quo which prevails today and which is acceptable to all member states, as commissioner oettinger has said, must remain the rule. each country is thus free to include this exception in its legislation or not, depending on its cultural peculiarities. that is also why i formally opposed amendment no 3, which was aimed solely at reinstating a mandatory exemption from the panorama right in the 28 member states. the report also includes the responsibility of web hosts, which i think is a good start to look with good intentions at the future proposal for a directive.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to provide parliament's position on copyright reform in view of the forthcoming revision of directive 2001/29/ec on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society in the context of the digital internal market package. this report clearly positions the european parliament in favour of adapting copyright to the digital age, but is equally clearly opposed to calling it into question. i am pleased that this report maintains the necessary balance between fair remuneration for the work and talent of creators, respect for european cultural diversity, the fight against piracy and counterfeiting, on the one hand, and easy access for consumers to its services by introducing a liability regime for platforms, intermediaries and hosts, on the other. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report was adopted by a large majority in the european parliament. it is a consensus position, and therefore a stronger one, to defend copyright and related rights, before the commission puts its proposal for the digital single market on the table.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this report on the harmonisation of copyright. this is again a political will to move towards the unification of standards and union law. in many cases, however, and particularly in france, the european law advocated in this report is of a much lower quality than the existing national law. the report also has many shortcomings, failing to address crucial issues such as computer hacking or the tax provisions of such a harmonization of the law. this report is, in essence, contrary to the principle of the sovereignty of the member states, which is of course contrary to the values i defend on a daily basis as a member of the europe of nations and freedoms group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague julia reda on copyright, which proposed improvements for the future copyright reform. this report is the result of a complete re-writing of the text, the original version of which was catastrophic for european culture, since the rapporteur was, whether intentionally or not, ignorant of the mechanisms governing cultural production. its proposals directly threatened artists, smes and the 7 million jobs that allow citizens to benefit from the diversity of european culture. the intensive work of negotiation has made it possible to extract all the harmful parts of the text and to make a balanced report, guaranteeing both the defence of the authors and a wide access to culture. this new version makes concrete proposals to adapt copyright to the challenges of the digital age, calls for greater accountability of technical intermediaries and recalls the importance of the cultural and creative sectors for the european economy, as well as the fundamental nature of the principle of territoriality of rights, at the heart of the financing of culture in europe. the text was adopted by a very large majority and will send a clear message to the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. this resolution is the result of difficult negotiations which fortunately prevented the adoption of a text which in its original version called for the demolition of the very principle of copyright. while it is necessary to adapt copyright legislation to the digital age, it is also necessary to continue to protect our european creators and their work so that they are fairly remunerated for their contributions. it is important to develop in europe an enabling environment for the cultural and creative sectors, which contribute to higher growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, because i am in favour of preserving the french and continental conception of copyright in the face of the intrusions of anglo-saxon concepts such as 'copyright' in the report. paragraph 28 of the report refers to a 'single european title' without defining or specifying the legal regime, which would be dangerous harmonization. paragraph 32 refers to the international standards laid down by the berne convention, which only sets minimum periods of less than those prescribed by french law. the system of exceptions and limitations to copyright specific to each member state should be protected. the authors must be guaranteed a fair remuneration and the moral right to the fruit of their creations. in the context of the information society, however, the legitimate rights of end users (consumers in particular) must be respected. in particular, a distinction must be made between commercial and non-commercial use.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the reda report because it promotes excessive and dangerous harmonisation of copyright. the final version voted by parliament is fortunately less catastrophic than the version originally proposed by the pirate member of parliament, mrs reda. thus, for example, the dangerous "freedom of panorama" which it enshrined, and which would have been contrary to french tradition, was abandoned.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report which does not protect the french concept of copyright against the intrusions of the anglo-saxon concept. the term used in this report is "copyright", which is the english term for copyright, different from the french definition. it is difficult to vote in favour of a text which uses an english-language semantic incompatible with a french-language semantic.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this resolution is to assess the implementation of the 2001 infosoc directive, which deals with 'the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights'. the compromise resolution, drafted in a balanced way, defends copyright while allowing certain exceptions to promote the dissemination of information and artistic productions. the resolution proposes to 'strengthen the exemptions for public interest institutions such as libraries, museums and archives' and to allow 'an exception for research and education purposes, which would not only cover educational establishments but also approved teaching and research activities'. the text also denounces geographical restrictions that block access to content for consumers depending on the country. the resolution also condemns the extremely low remuneration granted to authors by content platforms. i am abstaining in order not to condemn a good intention, but also to not approve of so many inaccuracies.
in writing. ‒ the european union, through this report, is once again trying to harmonise at european level. it should be remembered that this european harmonization of intellectual property law is unnecessary. in addition, many points are not addressed, such as the question of piracy or the sensitive subject of tax provisions. in addition, certain provisions would reduce the sovereignty of states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights. the epp group, of which i am a member, has been working to balance this text in order to reconcile the interests of creators and citizens-users. the aim is to strengthen and adapt copyright to the new challenges of the digital age, while ensuring that the greatest number of people have access to cultural content. i am committed to the principle of fair remuneration for the work and talent of authors and to the maintenance of sustainable funding mechanisms for cultural creation. these are essential to continue to support economic activity in the cultural sector, which accounts for 7.1 million jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ the original aim of this text was to provide a country-by-country overview of the implementation of the 2001 copyright directive, particularly in the light of the new digital environment. through a long negotiation process, we have reaffirmed the principle of fair remuneration for the work and talent of creators, and the need to maintain permanent funding mechanisms for cultural creation. the challenge is also to continue to offer europe an environment favourable to economic activity, namely the cultural and creative sectors, which generate jobs (7.1 million jobs) that are not "delocalizable" and attractive to the younger generation. the european parliament sent a very clear message this morning to the european commission, which announced its intention to propose before the end of the year a revision of the 2001 copyright directive, as part of the completion of the european digital market: yes to adapting copyright to the digital age, no to challenging it.
in writing. ‒ this report is based on concepts from anglo-saxon law such as copyright and therefore threatens the french and continental conception of copyright. the problem of piracy and the question of tax provisions are not addressed or are too evasive. yet this is an area where unfair tax competition is rife within the european union itself, as mr juncker is well aware. the other elements of the text (rights related to copyright, the notion of originality still undefined and questions of ownership) leave the great gap between the copyright and copyright regimes. it is therefore a mediocre text, because it is incomplete and does not respect the legal tradition of copyright developed in many states of the european union. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ if the original draft report were to be adopted today, it would make it very difficult to publish any calendar with photographs of modern architecture in my hometown of pilsen. i therefore voted in favour of the amendment, which i co-authored, and which sought to preserve the so-called freedom of panorama, that is to say, the freedom to photograph, for example, public buildings or works of art permanently displayed to the public. the bill didn't pass, but at least they managed, with my support, to remove the mention of restricting photography from the report, so that the freedom of the panorama was preserved, thanks to public pressure.
in writing. ‒ since 2001, a european directive has governed certain aspects of copyright and related rights. in autumn 2015, the european commission will propose a further reform of this directive. in this context, parliament adopted an own-initiative report outlining the state of play of the application of the 2001 directive and proposing possible developments. i voted in favour of this report, which has nevertheless been the subject of several criticisms with regard to freedom of panorama. i would like to reassure the public that the panorama exception has been respected in the report. freedom of panorama remains the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ meps adopted today the own-initiative report by julia reda on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright. i voted for this report which, thanks to the work and involvement of the socialists, proposes a whole series of balanced recommendations to the european commission in order to protect cultural diversity and the remuneration of authors, while guaranteeing the viability of this sector in an environment that is changing rapidly with the new information and communication technologies. in this report we call on the commission to maintain the principle of the exception to copyright, which exempts users in certain cases from requesting permission to reproduce protected works, without extending its application to the digital field and leaving a certain margin of manoeuvre to the member states in defining their exceptions to copyright. the text we voted also reaffirms the possibility of negotiating rights on a territorial basis and clearly rejects the principle of 'fair use' in the united states, which can limit and weaken the exclusive rights of the author.
in writing. ‒ digitisation and the popularisation of the exchange of content via virtual platforms have forced states to adapt their legislation by carrying out major copyright reforms. the commission had indicated its intention to harmonize these legislative frameworks at european level by means of a directive. this report, which was intended to anticipate such work, initially proved to be a very unbalanced text leading to the destruction of copyright, without protecting users. finally, after collective work and tough negotiations, we reached a compromise that deals in a reasoned way with the problems of geo-blocking (the practice of addressing content only to users in a given area), the single european title or private copies. i therefore welcome the adoption of this text which preserves the cultural wealth within the union while creating a draft common framework for copyright.
in writing. ‒ copyright cannot be considered a barrier, when it is copyright that allows artists to make a living from their art. however, ms reda's original project threatened artistic creation and diversity in europe by calling into question the european copyright framework, proposing the total harmonisation of exceptions or the reduction of the duration of rights. the european socialists and democrats have, however, managed to put aside these proposals that are dangerous for the sustainability and vitality of creativity in europe by finding a balance between the different stakeholders in order to strengthen a sustainable creative economy in europe. the compromise adopted excludes the introduction of fair use or a total harmonisation of the exceptions, as mrs reda wanted. by avoiding this bottom-up approach, the position of authors in the cultural landscape and the sustainability of european creation are strengthened. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which reaffirms the principle of fair remuneration for the work of creators and stresses the need to maintain sustainable funding mechanisms for cultural creation. the text also lays down concrete proposals to adapt copyright to the challenges of the digital age by strengthening it and ensuring a balance between respect for intellectual property and the access of the greatest number of people to cultural content. the challenge is important as it is a question of building an environment favourable to the cultural and creative sectors which creates jobs and remains attractive to the younger generation. with the adoption of this text, we have sent a clear message to the commission in the context of the forthcoming revision of the 2001 copyright directive.
in writing. ‒ the main focus is on the introduction of concepts from anglo-saxon law such as copyright, and the respect of the french and continental conception of copyright. attention is also paid to other elements of the text such as rights related to copyright, the concept of originality still undefined and questions of ownership, which leave the great gap between the copyright and copyright regimes. the question of piracy and taxation is not addressed in the report or is too evasive. however, google and its partners repatriate their profits made in france to parent companies with favourable tax treatment, within the union itself... this further harmonization of intellectual property law in europe is pointless. it is preferable to adapt the principles developed by french law. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the current copyright framework dates from 2001 and does not take account of developments, particularly in the digital domain. the revision is due to take place by the end of the year. this own-initiative report sought to assess the current framework and practices in order to make a number of recommendations for the review. the debate on this issue is always very sensitive, since it is not only about copyright itself, but also about the whole of cultural policy and the practices of europeans with interests that may seem contradictory. the debate took time, but the result presented was a fair balance between the rights and interests of creators and users. the european parliament calls for fair and appropriate remuneration to be guaranteed for all categories of rights holders, including (and especially) for the digital distribution of their works. it also proposes to relax the rules, particularly on geographical blocking, to allow greater access to culture and knowledge for all. so i chose to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european democracy fund aims to 'promote and support democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms'. it is a question of promoting interference in the internal affairs of third countries, in the name of democracy and at the expense of european taxpayers, through the union budget. the fund also promotes communitarianism, which i am opposed to. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text: in addition to the human rights interference that is the main cause of the communitarian demands, this report calls for the strengthening of the human and financial resources of a structure that is both expensive and useless, or even harmful, as it appears as a real propaganda instrument.
in writing. the text on the evaluation of the activities of the european fund for democracy (efd) aims at increasing the contribution of the member states to the fund and its actions. the emff aims to promote and support democracy, the rule of law, human rights, etc. all these are worthy goals that i can only support. however, it is clear that, as is so often the case with the european union, statements of principle and laudable intentions are very often transformed into very negative ideological consequences. france loses a lot of money every year as a net contributor to the budget of the european union. there is no question of accepting an extension which is only intended to stir up enmity with our neighbours, particularly with russia, by blaming them for all the ills. the rapporteur welcomes the support for ukraine, for example. for these reasons, i am opposed to this text.
in writing. ‒ the european endowment for democracy aims to promote and support democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights. its operating budget is financed by the commission and its promotion activities by contributions from member states and third countries. the report calls for increased contributions from the member states and calls for greater efforts to combat, in particular, 'russian propaganda'. the rapporteur is already pleased that the emff has helped activists in ukraine. apart from the human rights interference for which it is responsible, this fund is a costly (€4.4 million) structure, useless and used only for political propaganda purposes.
in writing. ‒ promoting and supporting democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights are among the main objectives of the union's foreign policy. in recent years, however, the countries in the union's neighbourhood have faced a number of political, economic and security problems that have put pressure on democratization efforts. this report highlights the importance of the european democracy fund, particularly in the light of the changing international context. it called on the member states and the commission to increase their contributions to the programme to continue the efforts already made. it calls for increased funding and human resources capacity for greater efficiency. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes an evaluation of the activities of the european endowment for democracy since its creation. the fund shall in particular assist civil society actors by financing initiatives in favour of the establishment of a pluralist society, democracy, the promotion of the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. since 2012, the fund has supported 158 projects, with eur 4,5 million for the southern neighbourhood and eur 4,4 million for the eastern neighbourhood. the fund has therefore been involved in supporting the processes of democratisation and the establishment of stable and sustainable democratic systems in the countries in transition. i consider this report to be a balanced evaluation and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this text on the evaluation of the activities of the european fund for democracy since its creation. the purpose of the fund is to promote and support democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the commission and the member states are the main donors to this fund with dubious aims, since the values it claims have too often been misused and used to justify various intervention operations, sometimes called 'humanitarian'. on the other hand, the report clearly defends communitarianism, which is so foreign and so contrary to the values of the french republic that we, the french members of the european parliament, are the only ones to defend it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr andrzej gryb, on the evaluation of the activities of the european fund for democracy. the european democracy fund is an independent fund that provides grants to support local actors in the neighbourhood of the union, always with the aim of promoting democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental principles. the report considers that the fund has fulfilled its main objectives. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the new approach of the union to human rights and democracy and on the evaluation of the activities of the european fund for democracy since its creation. the fund supports democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, the respect for which is one of the foundations of the european union's external policy. since its creation, the european democracy fund has, among other things, provided more than €10 million to help neighbouring countries. this action must not be discouraged in view of the particularly difficult international situation. democracy remains a value shared by the majority of the world's population and the european union must be an active defender of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the evaluation of the activities of the european fund for democracy (efdem) simply because this structure is useless and expensive. as recital a of the resolution states, 'the promotion and support of democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms are among the main objectives of the union's foreign policy'. the european union already has sufficient means to support democracy, namely the foreign ministers of the member states and their respective diplomatic services, not to mention the high representative for foreign affairs and her european external action service, whose usefulness is highly questionable. it would therefore be better to abolish the edf.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which is nothing but an interference in the human rights issue at the pan-european level. the text recognises the financing of political activities in ukraine which implies de facto interference in political choices. we cannot but deplore a text in favour of financing communitarianism. the human and financial reinforcement of a costly structure which resembles a propaganda tool is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the european democracy fund is the eu's armed wing to destabilise neighbouring countries. it is intended to finance human rights activists, but also and above all political foundations and political opposition in third countries. it should also be noted that unlike the other eu funds, it is officially a foundation of public utility, which means that it cannot tolerate any democratic control! the states which contribute to its financing are naturally those which have the greatest interest in destabilising their neighbours (poland, the initiator, the baltic states, hungary, etc.). under the guise of strengthening the rule of law and democracy, it interferes in the affairs of other countries, even strengthening the power of authoritarian regimes and oligarchs. the report welcomes funding "to ukrainian actors" and "to civil society and media in russia", and calls for funding to religious communities, highlighting their crucial role in opposing "communist regimes". i am opposed to any increase in this opaque fund which is a continuation of the european union's war-mongering policy. that's a big "no". i call for the end of this fund.
in writing. ‒ the european democracy fund aims to 'promote and support democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms'. apart from the fact that the name is more than doubtful, it should be remembered that this fund is partly financed by the commission and by contributions from the member states and third countries. it is in fact very clear that this fund is promoting interference in the name of democracy. i voted against it.
in writing. this european democracy fund is particularly weak when we know the profoundly anti-democratic attitude of some european leaders, especially on the greek issue. indeed, while the fund is intended to promote and support democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the words of mr schulz about replacing a democratically elected leader with a technocratic government to punish him for having dared to hold a referendum, or those of mr juncker for whom there can be no democracy against the treaties, show that the european union would rather need some lessons in democracy than to give them to the whole world! in substance, this report constitutes a human rights interference, encourages community funding and finances the fight against 'pro-russian propaganda'. under the guise of good principles, this fund serves particularly scandalous and anti-democratic interests, such as the political activities of ukraine (like the neo-nazis pravy sektor?). i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the evaluation of the activities of the european fund for democracy. the european democracy fund is an independent institution that provides grants to support local actors of democratic change in the neighbourhood of the union. it is about promoting democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental principles.
in writing. ‒ this european democracy fund is particularly flimsy when we know the profoundly anti-democratic attitude of some european leaders, especially on the greek issue. indeed, while the fund is intended to promote and support democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the words of mr schulz about replacing a democratically elected leader with a technocratic government to punish him for having dared to hold a referendum, or those of mr juncker for whom there can be no democracy against the treaties, show that the european union would rather need some lessons in democracy than to give them to the whole world! in substance, this report constitutes a human rights interference, encourages community funding and finances the fight against 'pro-russian propaganda'. under the guise of good principles, this fund serves particularly scandalous and anti-democratic interests, such as the political activities of ukraine (like the neo-nazis pravy sektor?). i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the activities of the european fund for democracy. this report gives an overview of the activities carried out under the fund and proposes a new european approach to human rights and democracy. the fund shall be used in particular to promote democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental principles in the union's neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ the european democracy fund aims to 'promote and support democracy, the rule of law and respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms'. it is financed on a co-financing basis: its administrative budget is provided by the commission, while activities on the ground are financed by contributions from the member states and third countries. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the report by mr grzyb aims in particular to increase the contribution of the member states and to encourage an increase in the number of erdf operations. the text considers that by supporting democracy, the edf reduces 'political risks'. in addition to the interference with human rights and the financing of communitarianism, this report calls for the strengthening of the human and financial resources of a costly and useless structure, which is akin to a real instrument of political propaganda. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the 'european democracy fund' was established in 2012 as a foundation to provide financial support to civil society organisations such as political foundations and political movements, media and so-called independent journalists in the european neighbourhood. both the objective and the form seem problematic to me. its board of directors is dominated by conservative and social democratic political representatives (no gue/ngl member was accepted), including incidentally the rapporteur of the text in question. beyond the subjectivity of its author, this report shows no critical distance from the fund's activities and falls into the caricature when addressing the ukrainian issue ("welcomes the subsidies granted to ukrainian actors, which give a good example of the rapid support for political activists who then become democratically elected representatives"). the partisan spirit is well illustrated when we read that "the church played a major role in opposing communist regimes and in the democratic transition processes in central and eastern europe". there is no doubt that it is not democracy that is being financed here, but the political kitchen. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ unusually, this resolution does not interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. the crisis in burundi since president nkurunziza decided to run for a third term is a matter of burundi's internal policy, over which the union has no right or power to regulate. it is up to the burundians to choose their leaders. parliament called on the burundian political leaders to find a solution to the crisis in order to avoid an escalation of the situation in an already unstable region. it recalled that burundi was obliged, under the cotonou agreements, to respect the government opposition and freedom of expression. failure to comply with these agreements would damage burundi's image and make it appear as an unreliable partner. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which, for once, has the wisdom not to give more lessons than necessary: it calls for respect for the government opposition and freedom of expression, which is an obvious necessity.
in writing. this european parliament motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi reminds the burundian government that it is bound by international agreements to respect the government opposition and freedom of expression in its country. as is often the case, some presidents believe they are untouchable, and it was president nkurunziza's candidacy for a third term that triggered the events. this proposal is in the right direction, since it does not seek to interfere in burundi's politics, but proposes respect for the cotonou and arusha agreements and a dialogue between the opposition and the government to make democracy work. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution strongly condemns the actions of president nkurunziza, who has violated the constitution of burundi by seeking a third term, and calls for an internal agreement between the government and the opposition. president nkurunziza is bound by the cotonou agreement to respect the government opposition and freedom of expression. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which i consider to be balanced, as is not customary.
in writing. ‒ since april, burundi has been plagued by an alarming situation. despite the constitutional provisions that prohibit a president from serving more than two terms, president nkurunziza has announced his candidacy for a third term. this announcement plunged the country into violence, resulting in a coup d'état and the death of seventy burundian citizens. the ruling power refuses to negotiate. we must act now. nearly 200,000 refugees have already fled the country. the resolution calls on the member states to respect the commitments made in the regional action plan for burundian refugees. it also calls for an end to violence and restrictions on access to information. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for an immediate end to the violence and political intimidation against the opposition in burundi. following the announcement in late april that president nkurunziza, who has been in power since 2005, would run for a third term, the country is experiencing a serious political and humanitarian crisis that has spread throughout the region. as such, the maintenance of the electoral calendar in a critical political and security context is a matter of concern and the european union should provide all necessary assistance with a view to ending the violence and organising free, peaceful, transparent and credible elections. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution on the current situation in burundi. the resolution, surprisingly, contains no element that defends interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. the crisis that this country has been experiencing since president nkurunziza decided to run for a third term is a matter of internal politics, over which we have no right or power to regulate: the citizens of burundi must take their destiny into their own hands. parliament therefore called for a solution to the crisis to be found by burundian politicians in order to avoid an escalation of the situation in an already unstable region. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the budgetary and financial resources allocated to the community are used in a proper manner. failure to comply with these conditions would seriously damage burundi's image and make it appear as an unreliable partner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in burundi. in the face of the violation of democratic principles and the violence suffered by the population, it is imperative that the government of burundi return to a situation of respect for the constitution and take action to put an end to violence against civil society. the european union cannot remain passive in the face of the flagrant violation of human rights and must contribute to the restoration and consolidation of peace in the country by encouraging dialogue and negotiation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on burundi. this text, since it is not customary, does not fit into the logic of the interference. we "deplore" the actions of president nkurunziza, who has violated the constitution of his country by seeking a third term, and we hope that a solution to the political crisis will be found internally, between the government and the opposition. it should be remembered that burundi is bound by the cotonou agreements to respect democratic principles, in particular freedom of expression and respect for the opposition to the government.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted for this text which, unlike other texts, does not involve political interference. it is indeed necessary to be vigilant about the actions of president nkurunziza who wants to violate the constitution to run for a third term. it is therefore necessary to maintain the cotonou agreements governing freedom of expression and respect for the opposition.
in writing. ‒ burundi has not managed to stabilise since the civil war in 2005. the president's announcement to seek a third term, contrary to the constitution and the arusha peace accords, continues to provoke severely repressed riots and the boycott of the opposition in the last elections. the resolution calls, as does the un, for the postponement of presidential elections until a return to a climate of peace, the disarmament and dissolution of the ruling party's youth militias. it is well aware of the dangers of sliding towards civil war and of the ethnic exploitation of the conflict. i am of course in favour of the desire for a political solution to the conflict, but i am against the eu's sanctions policies. finally, burundi's problems can only be solved by addressing social inequalities, including control of fertile farmland, corruption, poverty, through the creation of a free, democratic and stable state. i am voting in favour of supporting the request for financial support to the un to help the some 200,000 refugees in neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ the resolution, surprisingly, does not include any element that defends interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. the crisis that this country has been experiencing since president nkurunziza decided to run for a third term is a matter of internal politics, over which we have no right or power to regulate: the citizens of burundi must take their destiny into their own hands. parliament therefore called for a solution to the crisis to be found by burundian politicians in order to avoid an escalation of the situation in an already unstable region. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the budgetary and financial resources allocated to the community are used in a proper manner. failure to comply with these conditions would seriously damage burundi's image and make it appear as an unreliable partner. the member voted yes.
in writing. this european parliament resolution reminds the burundian government that it is bound by international agreements to respect the government opposition and freedom of expression in its country, both of which have been badly affected by the events triggered in recent months by the announcement of a candidacy for a third term by president nkurunziza. far from adopting a systematic attitude of interference, this proposal calls first for the settlement of this serious political crisis through a sustained and in-depth dialogue between the government and its opposition, and merely calls for compliance with the cotonou and arusha agreements, which are necessary for peace in a troubled region. respect for past peace agreements, commitment to freedom of the press and freedom of expression and internal conflict resolution outside the usual veils of interference explain my vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution reminds the burundian government that it is bound by international agreements to respect the government opposition and freedom of expression in its country, both of which have been badly affected by the events triggered in recent months by the announcement of a candidacy for a third term by president nkurunziza. far from adopting a systematic attitude of interference, this proposal calls first for the settlement of this serious political crisis through a sustained and in-depth dialogue between the government and its opposition, and merely calls for compliance with the cotonou and arusha agreements, which are necessary for peace in a troubled region. respect for past peace agreements, commitment to freedom of the press and freedom of expression and internal conflict resolution outside the usual veils of interference explain my vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ it is not for the european parliament to define the terms used to describe a historical event: memorial laws are not within its sphere of competence, especially since i denounce their existence even in france. it is hardly twenty years later, and it is far too early to see clearly in this dark episode of the bosnian-serb war. before we can use the term "genocide", we would have to complete the hearings or trials of the many protagonists still alive. it should be remembered that many serbs living in bosnia were expelled from their territory, without any reaction from the union or its member states. the resolution also promotes community integration, which i do not consider to be healthy or desirable. for these reasons i opposed this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. - i voted against this manichean simplism which once again blames the serbs for all the ills.
in writing. this european parliament resolution commemorates the 20th anniversary of the massacre of the bosnian muslim population of the srebrenica area in the summer of 1995 during the war in bosnia and herzegovina. this proposal fully enshrines the term genocide, unlike the un security council. while these acts and what is done in wartime is obviously reprehensible, we cannot speak of genocide here since women, children and the elderly have been evacuated and spared. it is also an opportunity to remind us of the importance of the integration of the balkan countries, in particular bosnia and herzegovina, into the eu. as a member of the delegation for bosnia and kosovo, i was able to see the europeanist will to enlarge the eu to these countries at all costs. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution commemorates the 20th anniversary of the massacre and ethnic cleansing in srebrenica during the bosnian war, which saw more than 8 000 muslims summarily executed by bosnian serb forces and nearly 30 000 women, children and elderly people forcibly expelled in a campaign of mass ethnic cleansing. parliament paid tribute to all the victims of the srebrenica genocide and all the atrocities committed during the conflicts in the former yugoslavia and reaffirmed the union's commitment to the european perspective and then to the long-term accession process of bosnia-herzegovina and all the countries of the western balkans. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against this motion for a resolution on the commemoration of the events in srebrenica. it is not the role of parliament to define the terms by which a historical event can be described: memorial laws are not within its sphere of competence. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is therefore unacceptable for parliament to call these events 'genocide'. the hearings or trials of several protagonists have yet to take place, it is not possible to know the full complexity of these events. moreover, this resolution is being used to promote european integration, which is neither healthy nor desirable in this particular case. in 1995, serbs living in bosnia were also expelled from their territory, without any outrageous shock to the good conscience of the west.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the commemoration of srebrenica, which pays tribute to all the victims of the srebrenica genocide perpetrated on 11 july 1995. this resolution strongly condemns this massacre, an unprecedented atrocity in which more than 8 000 people lost their lives. the resolution also serves as a reminder of the atrocities that result from the rise of nationalism. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the commemoration of the srebrenica massacre. the commemoration of such an event is essential to show our support to the families of the victims and to highlight the terrible effects of intolerance and nationalism in extremes. the recognition of the srebrenica genocide is very important and represents a major step towards reconciliation between the ethnic groups in bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the commemoration of srebrenica because i believe that the exploitation of the victims of this massacre for the benefit of the european union's enlargement policy is deplorable. the european union is committed to the european perspective and to the accession process of bosnia and herzegovina and all the countries of the western balkans. believes that regional cooperation and european integration are the best way to promote reconciliation and overcome hatred and divisions.' the srebrenica dead and their families deserve to be honoured without any attempt at political redress.
in writing. i voted against this bill, which is stirring up demons from the past that this region doesn't need. this text is mainly used as propaganda for the union. in this way it promotes european integration with a crucial lack of objectivity.
in writing. ‒ the resolution commemorates the massacre of 8 372 bosniaks (bosnian muslims who formed a national group in socialist yugoslavia) in srebrenica. "political leaders in bosnia and herzegovina must accept the past in order to build a better future for all the citizens of the country". the resolution calls on national politicians to take their share of responsibility for this past. however, the union also has a responsibility and could start by ending the foreign military presence in bosnia-herzegovina. commemorating the 20th anniversary of the genocide requires the utmost seriousness. the recognition of the genocide is of course a mitigating factor. all parties must therefore be tried, including the bosnian side, as in the case of the practically exonerated general naser oric. this resolution does not mention it. finally, it maintains the ethnic division of the country initiated by the united states, which is not conducive to alleviating tensions. it even supports the role of religions while the vatican pushes croatian claims and qatar, for its part, wahhabist islam. this is potentially new borders for tomorrow and an even more fragmented country. under the circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. ‒ it is not the role of parliament to define the terms used to describe a historical event: commemorative laws are not within its sphere of competence. given the historical proximity, it will take time to shed light on this dark episode of the bosnian-serb war. it is therefore unacceptable for parliament to call these events 'genocide'. the hearings or trials of several protagonists have yet to take place, it is not possible to know the full complexity of these events. moreover, this resolution is being used to promote european integration, which is neither healthy nor desirable in this particular case. in 1995, serbs living in bosnia were also expelled from their territory, without any outrageous shock to the good conscience of the west. the member voted against.
in writing. this european parliament resolution commemorates the 20th anniversary of the massacre of the bosnian muslim population, which formed a distinct national group within the former communist yugoslavia, in the srebrenica area in the summer of 1995 during the war in bosnia and herzegovina. unlike the un security council, this proposal applies the term 'genocide' to these acts which are undoubtedly crimes against humanity, but which do not constitute a systematic attempt to eradicate an entire people in all its facets, since 'only' men and boys of fighting age were shot while women, children and the elderly were evacuated: the very specific notion of genocide seems to me to be inappropriate here. the resolution also reaffirms the europeanist will and commitment to the accession process of bosnia-herzegovina and all the balkan countries. this race towards integration into the union, even though the peoples of the member states seem particularly reluctant to accept new membership, shows the clear cynicism of the union, which finds in this commemoration a way of extending its power and territory a little further. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution commemorates the 20th anniversary of the massacre of the bosnian muslim population, which formed a distinct national group within the former communist yugoslavia, in the srebrenica area in the summer of 1995 during the war in bosnia and herzegovina. unlike the un security council, this proposal applies the term 'genocide' to these acts which are undoubtedly crimes against humanity, but which do not constitute a systematic attempt to eradicate an entire people in all its facets, since 'only' men and boys of fighting age were shot while women, children and the elderly were evacuated: the very specific notion of genocide seems to me to be inappropriate here. the resolution also reaffirms the europeanist will and commitment to the accession process of bosnia-herzegovina and all the balkan countries. this race towards integration into the union, even though the peoples of the member states seem particularly reluctant to accept new membership, shows the clear cynicism of the union, which finds in this commemoration a way of extending its power and territory a little further. i therefore voted against this proposal.
author. mr president, thank you for your french. twenty-five years of dictatorship followed by 15 years of civil war, exploited by neighbouring countries seeking to control the wealth, particularly mining; nearly 7 million deaths according to caritas. according to the united nations, illegal mining of gold, timber, ivory, and minerals is worth over a billion dollars in the east of the country alone. most of the profits are channelled to transnational criminals who finance armed groups in the region. in this blood-soaked country, civil society has played an important role, especially since 2003. some paid with their lives, like floribert chebeya. a bloody crackdown took place during the protests last january, triggered by joseph kabila's desire to change the electoral law to stay in power. the targets of repression are first of all the activists of civil society, the youth movement, filimbi, as well as many human rights defenders. yves makwambala and fred bauma are symbols of this, as evidenced by the call for their release on 15 june, supported by 15 international ngos and 20 congolese organizations. the european union must exert all its influence to secure their release, but also, as the opposition is demanding, by participating in an international mediation, which is essential for the re-establishment of a pluralistic and transparent political dialogue before the next elections. i believe the congolese people have a right to that.
author. mr president, nabil rajab is indeed the president of the bahrain centre for human rights and the deputy secretary-general of fidh, an organisation to which i have belonged for over thirty years. arrested for the fifth time in less than three years, he has spent 28 of the last 36 months in prison. since the 2011 uprising, when nearly 300,000 people took to the streets, the repression in this small country of just over a million people has been severe. and let us not forget that it was the military intervention of saudi arabia that allowed the al khalifa dynasty to remain in power. the political opponents, shiites and sunnis, as evidenced by the arrests of sheikh ali salman, leader of the moderate shiite opposition, ibrahim sharif, leader of the sunni opposition, journalists, human rights activists, trade unionists who denounce the exploitation of migrant workers and women are the ones who suffer. one after another, attempts at national dialogue have failed. the hard-line factions of the regime seem to have regained control. the deterioration of the human rights situation is evident. the bahrainis are paying the price for the confrontation between the major powers and the exploitation of these powers. the united states has just announced that it will resume military aid, which was suspended in 2011, not to mention the supply of arms to some member states. we must therefore strongly condemn this situation and support all ngos, without concessions. finally, i would like the epp group to have the same spirit when it comes to looking at all the countries. it seems that there are countries where there is political analysis and others where there is a focus on human rights. that's not how i see things. i regret the attitude of the epp group.
author. mr president, our resolution is essentially centred on the case of two christian pastors. i regret that, because it could have been an opportunity to reaffirm our overall condemnation of the regime after the elections last april. never before in this country has the opposition been so united. we were a number of those who saw this at the conference held here on 9 june, where some of the signatories of the sudanese appeal were prevented from participating, including amin mekki medani, president of the confederation of sudanese civil society organisations, who was at the centre of the resolution we adopted last december, and mr farouk abu isa, president of the national council of forces. since the rigged elections, in which mr el-bashir won more than 94% of the vote, the repression has increased. the risk of the death sentences of michael yat and peter yen reith is just one sad example. the sudanese authorities must respect freedom of thought, conscience and religion, whatever the religion concerned, freedom of belief or disbelief, as well as freedom of expression in all areas. last monday, for example, two opposition leaders were sentenced to 20 lashes, which were immediately executed in court. a humiliation, a verdict unprecedented since the coup of 1989. another provocation of the regime. omar el-bashir, under an arrest warrant from the international criminal court, has even recently made a new dent in the international community by attending an african union summit in south africa. military forces continue to bomb civilian populations, humanitarian aid is blocked. the situation of women, regardless of their religion, is catastrophic. it is therefore the overall human rights situation that must be denounced. i regret once again that the european union has embarked on a process of negotiation with such a regime in the context of migration policies. the european union has nothing to look forward to. omar el-bashir will only find international recognition which he is after and which he knows how to use very well. we must denounce globally the violations of human rights in sudan, as elsewhere, and draw the political consequences.
member of the commission.– mr president, it is a good opportunity, on behalf of the high representative, to have this debate on the ongoing trials against the two pastors we have discussed today –pastor yat michael ruot and pastor peter yein reith in sudan. both pastors had been preaching in the evangelical and presbyterian church in khartoum. they spoke out against the demolition of this church, following the dubious sale of the land on which it stands, and their arrests were carried out by the national intelligence and security services of sudan. they face seven different charges, including undermining the constitutional system and espionage which – as you have pointed out – could lead to the death penalty. the preliminary hearing closed on 2 july and we had been hoping to come with some positive news, especially as the evidence presented was so weak. unfortunately, the judge decided to admit the case and the full trial is now set for 14 july. you can rest assured that we will be following this very closely. the eu delegation in khartoum has been in close contact with the pastors’ lawyers throughout the whole procedure and, following their advice, has been observing the hearings in collaboration with member states. we continue to do so. we believe that this sends a strong political signal of the importance that we attach to the process, most importantly to the freedom of religion, freedom of belief, freedom of expression and the right to a fair trial. this illustrates, once again, the deeply worrying situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in general in sudan, as well as the tight grip that the security forces have on state institutions. let us not forget – as some of you have mentioned – that the situation in darfur, south kordofan and blue nile continues to cause endless drama and a lot of suffering for so many people. we will continue to work for the release of the two pastors and prioritise human rights and peace in all our contacts with sudanese stakeholders.
author. mr president, i learned last night that three sudanese opposition leaders from the congress party were sentenced to twenty lashes last monday. the sentence was immediately carried out in court. i think that in this country it is a particularly humiliating thing, and i therefore ask the european parliament to include this new fact in the resolution. i think there is a consensus on this.
mr president, you have made a strong point of the values of the european union and the humanitarian and political crisis in hungary. i would therefore like to put a proposal to the good will of the european parliament or the conference of presidents, namely that the cars of the european parliament should go to hungary to pick up a number of refugees. this would be of value in support of refugees and i think it would be a very strong message to mr orbán and his government that the european parliament supports refugees and puts its resources at their disposal.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, first of all i would also like to thank laura ferrara for the work she has done and all those who have contributed to this report. many here and elsewhere agree that the european union is experiencing a crisis of values. the refugee problem, and more generally the problem of migration, is an unfortunate symbol of this. what are the so-called universal values if their application varies geometrically according to the different states and categories of population? no, the tools don't exist. there are no penalties for breaches in this area. if you want evidence, look at the un reports, look at the council of europe reports: they are all damning about the backsliding of the european union and its member states in this area. for a long time, european states have been able to be seen as role models through the struggles that have advanced universal respect for these rights. but in recent years, the direction of the gait has been reversed. the number of backsliding is increasing. public freedoms are being attacked in the name of security, the widespread registration of entire sections of the population is being implemented, hatreds are being fanned and scapegoats, migrants and arab-muslims in particular, are being thrown to the wind. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat the problem of unemployment, and it is hoping that the council will take a decision on this matter in the near future. so, surely, respect for the other, whatever his differences and his socio-cultural choices - a term i prefer to that of ethnic, at least ambiguous - religious, philosophical, sexual and political, and living together are fundamental principles without which nothing is possible. i hope that we can come together here in a broad way on mrs ferrara's report.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i agree with you that fundamental rights should not be used as a political weapon, which will allow the european union to interfere more in the internal affairs of states, most of which in europe are capable of defending their fundamental rights themselves. i would like to ask you a further question: do you not think that this report is also likely to blur the boundary between the european union and the council of europe, the organisation which specialises in defending freedoms?
mr president, the crisis in french agriculture is symptomatic of the failure of european policy. your policy of enlargement and of financing agriculture in the applicant countries no longer makes sense and if we add to this the result of your liberal ideal of producing at low cost, this obviously creates strong unfair competition from certain member countries, such as germany for example, especially with pigs. we have two urgent measures to take. firstly, it is necessary to give states back the possibility of protecting a sector that is synonymous with the independence of a country, namely agriculture. secondly, it is essential that the european parliament should stop its declarations of intent and take the decision on mandatory labelling, thus ensuring the traceability of products. this is a strong demand of our compatriots and europeans in general. agriculture must therefore not be condemned by a globalist liberalism.
mr president, on 24 september in france, more than 100 000 sheep will be bled in good conscience during the muslim festival of eid al-khabir. however, council regulation (ec) no 1099/2009 of 24 september 2009 on the protection of animals at the time of killing provides that many killing methods are painful for animals. thus, stunning is necessary to induce unconsciousness and loss of sensation before or at the time of killing. all these written precautions to allow for exceptions to ritual slaughter. what hypocrisy! countless reports, studies, and video reports have documented the terrible suffering endured by animals slaughtered alive without first being stunned, some taking as little as 10 minutes to die. the exemptions for these religious rites must be abolished in france. france should follow the example of sweden, denmark, switzerland and certain regions of austria, which have banned these derogations and made prior stunning compulsory. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, gandhi said: "the greatness of a nation is measured by the way it treats its animals". (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission for having firmly placed the blue economy on the european agenda. the prospect of 1.6 million jobs in this sector is a powerful motivator. however, there are persistent obstacles to the development of the maritime economy. against the backdrop of scientific gaps, the lack of data on the oceans and the urgency of making them accessible, we will continue to support the commission. we also support it when it states the need for specialised ocean researchers, although we think it is useful to add that training should cover all skill levels, from seafarers to technicians and engineers. but, like the opinion for which i am the rapporteur, we propose two amendments. the first concerns the completeness of the list of activities drawn up by the commission. renewable marine energy, new propulsion for the ships of the future, selective fishing and marine biotechnologies - the list is not complete. the ecological transition can find one of its best vectors here. that leaves the funding. while the commission is content to summarise the budgetary programmes for which the blue economy is eligible, we believe that there will be no real impetus without a budget line specifically devoted to maritime.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, like you, i support this text which seeks to combat the consumption of cloned animals for the reasons you have mentioned: human health, animal welfare and, more fundamentally, for ethical reasons as i am personally against cloning. you also mentioned the ttip, the famous transatlantic treaty project, which is very interesting. do you not think that the commission in brussels will not torpedo this report in preparation for the negotiation of this partnership?
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mrs sommer and mrs moi, on the work they have done to prevent very clearly the use of cloning, but also the importation of clone offspring and i think that this work is remarkable. it comes at a time when the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) believes that the concentration and impoverishment of genetic resources in the world is a threat. today, farms are often dominated by a single variety: the leghorn chicken is found in every country in the world, the large white pig is found in 117 countries, and the holstein cow is found in 128 countries. so today, both the diversity and the breeding are under threat. on the other hand, we have a corporate gene concentration. today, two genetic companies control laying hens and two companies control broilers. this is a danger! and this is where cloning comes in, because companies want to impose genetically modified animals again, that is, we are inventing, with clones, transgenic animals solely for the purpose of patenting these companies. european consumers do not want this technology. they don't want these products. if the commission is now presenting this text again, no one can imagine that it is simply for the sake of the beauty of scientific work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's obvious! the time line, when it was decided, makes this clear. i hope that the european parliament will follow the recommendations and in particular that everyone will vote in favour of amendment no 38 which prohibits the consumption of animals produced by cloning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive we are discussing here illustrates the subtle technique of globalism: first of all, we destroy all the protections of our economies, then we lower the standards by introducing new techniques which flourish under the auspices of free trade, and suddenly the technocracy offers us a text whose objective is to establish global rules, a supplementary piece to the overall edifice of ultra-liberalism. the substance of this directive on the cloning of animals for farming purposes is also very worrying. one of the major risks is the eventual standardization of species and patent control by a small number of companies and laboratories that will own cloned genetic models and cloning techniques. when our parliament decides on techniques which bring about structural changes in our economy and agriculture, we must, on the one hand, extend the consideration to the legal framework, in this case patents for cloning, and, on the other hand, apply the precautionary principle because we must be vigilant against the serious risks of manipulating living things.
mr president, the question of authorizing the cloning of food-producing animals is unacceptable on more than one account. apart from the willingness of some to play the sorcerer's apprentice, this technique is not supported by our breeders at all. it also raises ethical issues related to animal welfare. during pregnancy, as you know, females suffer from fat calf syndrome, which is responsible for one-third of postnatal deaths, causes very high height and weight and causes the appearance of hypertrophied organs. one of the dangers is the loss of genetic diversity, and this of course risks not only benefiting speculative interests because the technology is very expensive, so reserved for the rich. the other danger could be the rapid disappearance of the already crisis-ridden livestock industry. in addition, cloning has a bad image in the public eye, which of course risks alienating consumers from these products. so this project is of no interest whatsoever. this proposal is also dishonest because it is only a matter of preparing the distribution of the cloned products that will come to us from the united states because of your disastrous transatlantic treaty.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate our two rapporteurs, mrs giulia moi of the committee on agriculture and rural development and mrs renate sommer of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on their excellent work on cloning. the report you have produced reinforces the clear application of the precautionary principle to which we are committed. this breeding technique, which is not used in agriculture in europe, is actually problematic. citizens - it has been said - are rightly concerned about these modes of production. we must be vigilant to protect human health, the environment, animal welfare and the heritage of genetic diversity. i fully support the lines of the report before us, which not only prohibit cloning for breeding and food purposes, but also the importation of live animals and of the germ and food products of cloned animals, as well as all products that may be derived from their offspring. you also demand that cloning products be traced in order to prevent their entry into european territory. i share that view. the search for economic profitability cannot in any case be exempt from respect for these principles and that is why we must say collectively 'no' here in parliament to cloning in agriculture and food.
mr president, commissioner, the question of animal cloning is not a neutral one, far from it. it has many aspects, first of all, of course, on the ethical side, concerning animal health and animal welfare, but also on the human health and biodiversity issues. european citizens are rightly concerned about these modes of production which are not in keeping with their vision of our societies. i therefore support this report which draws the red lines in this area, by prohibiting the import of products from cloning and calling for strict traceability of products from cloning in order to prevent their entry into european territory. in the case of animal breeding and improvement of animal characteristics, there are other methods. we have the means to do so, for example genomic research, which helps to increase the quality and characteristics of different animal breeds in a natural and diversified way.
madam president, customs are a decisive tool in the intelligent economic protection of a territory and in the defence of a country's sovereignty and strategic independence. any fair and coherent economic system cannot be built without responsive and efficient customs. the commission once again wants to take the place of the member states and to be the champion of the surveillance, control and prevention of customs fraud, but the terrible news we are witnessing today proves the opposite. how can we believe for a moment that the commission will be able to control the flow of goods effectively when it is unable to control the flow of people? how can it claim to be able to regulate an economic area which it has already methodically deregulated? open your eyes and stop being naive. stop promising extra profits to the europeans. it is urgent for the member states, and particularly for france, to regain control of their borders and national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ this legislative resolution authorises member states to ratify the protocol established by the international labour organisation (ilo) in 2014. this protocol relates to the c29 convention on forced labour, adopted in 1930 by the ilo and ratified by france in 1937. the c29 convention called on signatory countries to prohibit forced labour, with the understanding that this did not include certain forms of compulsory labour (those required of military personnel, civic duties, public service work following a conviction, etc.). it encouraged the acceding countries to take appropriate measures to ensure that workers receive a fair wage guaranteeing them free and dignified living conditions. the new protocol of 2014 notes that the convention is not respected by all signatory states. it therefore reminded them of their obligations in the fight against forced labour and called on them to cooperate in the judicial field in order to be more effective. in these times of economic crisis, it seems to me useful that france should be allowed to ratify this new protocol. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation which calls for respect for the international labour organisation's convention on forced labour, which dates from 1930 and is still not respected in too many countries. our economies are obviously suffering from this unfair and immoral competition.
in writing. ‒ the fight against forced labour dates back to an ilo convention of 1930. this convention (not ratified by the united states) calls for countries to eliminate forced or compulsory labor altogether. the 2014 protocol follows up on this convention and indicates that the fact that forced labour is still not eradicated everywhere must be addressed quickly. the council of the union authorized the member states this year to ratify the convention, since the union as an entity cannot do so. since some member states of the union, including france, have already signed the convention, it is only right that we continue along this path and fight against forced labour in the world. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has made a positive recommendation on the council's draft authorising member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation's 1930 labour force convention. the convention calls on the signatory countries to abolish forced and compulsory labour as soon as possible, with the possibility of a transitional period. the 2014 protocol states that forced labour has not yet been eradicated and reminds states of their obligations in this regard. it would be particularly appropriate for the union to reconsider its policy of cooperation with qatar, which allows a veritable modern slavery to be practised on its territory. we consider forced labour to be a moral aberration. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the fight against forced labour is organised on the basis of a convention of the international labour organisation which france has ratified. it is therefore necessary to continue along this path in order to combat forced labour throughout the world.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the ratification by member states of the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation's forced labour convention. the protocol aims to strengthen the international legal framework dating back to 1930 and adds new instruments to prohibit forced labour and provide protection for victims, as well as access to care. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that forced labour, which still affects 20 million people worldwide (880 000 in europe), is an unacceptable reality in the 21st century.
in writing. i voted in favour of the council's proposal to update the ilo convention on forced labour. all protocols and actions aimed at preventing forced labour and toughening penalties against it are, of course, welcome.
in writing. ‒ the report submitted to the vote of meps proposes to approve the ratification of the 2014 protocol on the forced labour convention of 1930, which france had already ratified. i therefore voted in favour of this ratification which confirms france's commitment to combating forced labour. it seems to me, however, essential to add that this position should be reflected in deeds, particularly in the field of trade with partner countries practising forced labour. the naïve and cheerful face of globalisation is often masked by the tragic situations of human exploitation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to combat forced labour.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation on the draft council decision authorises member states to ratify the protocol established by the international labour organisation (ilo) in 2014. this protocol relates to the c29 convention on forced labour adopted in 1930 by the ilo and ratified by france in 1937. the c29 convention called on signatory countries to prohibit forced labour, with the understanding that this did not include certain forms of compulsory labour (those required of military personnel, civic duties, public service work following a conviction, etc.). it encouraged the acceding countries to take appropriate measures to ensure that workers receive a fair wage and thus guarantee them free and dignified living conditions. the new protocol of 2014 notes that the convention is not respected by all signatory states. it therefore reminded them of their obligations in the fight against forced labour and called on them to cooperate in the judicial field in order to be more effective. given the deterioration of working conditions in our country and the threat of further deregulation of our economy, i thought it useful to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague patrick le hyaric on the ilo convention on forced labour. the aim of the text is to give parliament's consent to the member states ratifying a 2014 protocol updating the ilo forced labour convention. the text was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which aimed to ratify the 2014 protocol on the international labour organisation's forced labour convention. the adoption of this report was important in order to combat effectively trafficking in human beings and forced labour.
in writing. ‒ it is legitimate to fight against forced labour in the world. this protocol is a logical follow-up to the 1930 convention on forced labour, which france had already ratified. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it recalls the need to eliminate forced labour, which still exists in some countries, even though the ilo has been working to ban it since 1930.
in writing. - i voted for this protocol which follows the convention of 1930. this new protocol is a logical follow-up that encourages signatories to finally eliminate forced labour which has not yet been eradicated. it is therefore normal to go along with this convention, which france has already ratified.
in writing. ‒ forced labour is a violation of human rights and a violation of the dignity of millions of women, men, girls and boys. yet, in the 21st century, 21 million people are victims of forced labor, an exploitation that generates $150 billion a year for those who organize and control it. the 1930 international labour organization (ilo) convention on forced labour forbids this practice, and the ilo has also adopted a convention on forced labour. the 2014 protocol updates the convention by providing new tools to combat forced labour and by making it legally binding. the text authorises the member states to ratify the new protocol. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this legislative resolution authorises member states to ratify the protocol established by the international labour organisation (ilo) in 2014. this protocol relates to the c29 convention on forced labour adopted in 1930 by the ilo and ratified by france in 1937. the c29 convention called on signatory countries to prohibit forced labour, with the understanding that this did not include certain forms of compulsory labour (those required of military personnel, civic duties, public service work following a conviction, etc.). it encouraged the acceding countries to take appropriate measures to ensure that workers were not subjected to forced labour, but were given fair pay and guaranteed free and dignified living conditions. the new protocol of 2014 notes that the convention is not respected by all signatory states. it therefore reminds signatory states of their obligations in the fight against forced labour and calls on them to cooperate at the judicial level in order to be more effective. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the council of the european union decided on 10 march 2015 to authorise member states to ratify the additional protocol to the ilo forced labour convention, 1930, condemning forced labour. the european union as a whole cannot ratify the text, so it will be up to the member states to do so individually. france had ratified the original convention. the vote must therefore be in favour, having regard to the objectives pursued by the protocol.
in writing. this report on the ilo forced labour convention is part of the policy of combating forced labour initiated in 1930 by the ilo convention. this convention (not ratified by the united states) calls for countries to eliminate forced or compulsory labor altogether. the 2014 protocol follows up on this convention and indicates the need to urgently address forced labour which still persists in some countries. the council of the eu this year authorised the member states to ratify the convention, as the eu, as a legal person, cannot ratify it. although i believe that the eu should not interfere in the international affairs of states, since the latter have already signed this convention (including france), it is normal to continue on this path and to fight against forced labour in the world. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the european union to combat forced labour worldwide by allowing member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the international labour organisation convention. forced labor generates $150 billion a year in revenue for those who do it. it is important to combat this violation of human rights which is affecting the dignity of 21 million adults and children worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to put forward the 2014 protocol on the forced labour convention of the international labour organisation of 1930. the text updates the previous convention and sets out new instruments which are more adequate to combat new forms of forced labour. this strengthens the international legal framework that establishes obligations to prevent forced labour and provides protection and remedies for victims. the union has already banned forced labour, but it is still present on its territory, which is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ the fight against forced labour dates back to an ilo convention of 1930. this convention (not ratified by the united states) calls for countries to eliminate forced or compulsory labor altogether. the 2014 protocol follows up on this convention and indicates that the fact that forced labour is still not eradicated everywhere must be addressed quickly. the council of the eu this year authorised the member states to ratify the convention, as the eu as an entity cannot ratify it. the eu member states, including france, have already signed the convention, and it is appropriate to continue along this path to combat forced labour worldwide. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation, which does not infringe the sovereignty of the states.
in writing. ‒ in the context of promoting human rights and decent working conditions for all, the union wanted to strengthen the ilo international convention on forced labour by ratifying the 2014 protocol. this document was approved by the european parliament and complements the convention on social policy issues. i am glad that i voted in favour of this report. this protocol will then have to be ratified by each member state.
in writing. ‒ the fight against forced labour is organised on the basis of a convention of the international labour organisation (ilo) of 1930 (which entered into force on 1 may 1932). the 1930 forced labour convention (no. 29), ratified by all the member states of the european union, calls on countries to eliminate forced or compulsory labour as soon as possible. it also sets out specific conditions for forced or compulsory labour for the transitional period before total abolition (hours, pay, care, etc.). a review was planned for 5 years after the entry into force of the convention to take stock, in 1937. it should be noted that this convention has not been ratified by the united states. the protocol is therefore a logical follow-up to the 1930 convention on forced labour, which france had already ratified. so it is only right that we continue along this path. furthermore, there is a legitimate fight against forced labour in the world. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ forced labour is an intolerable form of exploitation of human beings which nevertheless remains a reality. almost 21 million people are currently victims of forced labour worldwide, including 1.6 million in europe. the first victims are most often the most vulnerable populations, especially irregular migrants, who often have difficulty in asserting their rights and demands. as a result, they are often subject to blackmail by their employers. this lack of respect for human rights and fundamental rights on european soil is intolerable and that is why it was necessary to finally update the convention against forced labour, which dates back to 1930. it is essential to strengthen labour law and not to let it weaken as recent european policies have tended to do. i therefore voted in favour of this report by my colleague patrick le hyaric, which proposes new binding instruments to oblige the states to implement plans to combat these illegal forms of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ considering that the alleged offence speeding in an agglomeration in piotrków trybunalski has no direct or obvious connection with the performance by mr korwin-mikke of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that in the present case parliament has not been able to establish that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of harming the member's political activity, i did not oppose the waiver of his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke, a non-attached polish member of parliament. the alleged offence against mr korwin-mikke is exceeding the speed limit in the city of piotrków trybunalski of 32 km/h. the prosecutor of the republic of poland has requested authorisation to bring proceedings against mr korwin-mikke. i voted for the waiver of immunity, since the alleged offence is not directly related to mr korwin-mikke's duties as a member of the european parliament, it does not concern a political opinion expressed by him and the proceedings are not intended to prejudice the political activity of the member.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament must vote on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke. the driver is suspected of having committed an offence for exceeding the maximum speed permitted in the polish city of piotrków trybunalski. the alleged offence is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament and does not constitute an opinion or vote in the exercise of his duties as a member. as a politician, a french mayor and a member of the european parliament, i have always believed that those who hold public office should behave in an irreproachable manner. if not, they must be brought to justice. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence committed by mr korwin-mikke is not directly related to the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament, nor does it constitute an opinion or vote in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. however, i am against interference in polish justice, so i abstained on the lifting of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i can only oppose the lifting of parliamentary immunity if there are clear cases of political persecution and repression of intellectual freedom. in this case, our colleague mr korwin-mikke is being prosecuted for speeding in poland, a procedure which clearly has no intention of affecting his political activity. that is why i voted to waive his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution so that the member in question can defend himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament must vote on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke. the driver is suspected of having committed an offence for exceeding the maximum speed permitted in the polish city of piotrków trybunalski. the alleged offence is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament and does not constitute an opinion or vote in the exercise of his duties as a member. as a politician, a french mayor and a member of the european parliament, i have always believed that those who hold public office should behave in an irreproachable manner. if not, they must be brought to justice. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague evelyn regner on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor general of poland has requested the waiver of the immunity of the member of parliament janusz korwin-mikke for a traffic offence. this was not part of his activities as a member of parliament and, in order for the polish judiciary to be able to investigate, i voted in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is speeding in an agglomeration. the municipal police state that on 6 september 2014, while driving his car in piotrków trybunalski, mr korwin-mikke exceeded the maximum speed allowed in an agglomeration by 32 km/h, i.e. 50 km/h, as detected by a radar located in the area in question. since the alleged offence has no direct or obvious connection with the performance by mr korwin-mikke of his duties as a member of the european parliament, since it does not constitute an opinion or a vote in the course of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and since parliament has not been able to establish in this case that there was fumus persecutionis, that is to say, a sufficiently serious and precise presumption that the proceedings were initiated with the intention of harming the member's political activity, we voted to waive his immunity.
in writing. i voted to waive mr korwin-mikke's immunity, because it's about prosecuting him for a traffic violation. so it has nothing to do with his parliamentary mandate.
in writing. - i voted for this waiver of parliamentary immunity. this suspension is requested so that mr. korwin-mikke can be tried for speeding in his home country. as this offence has no connection with his office as an mp, we recognise that he may be prosecuted for it and therefore we ask for his immunity to be waived.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the polish far-right mp janusz korwinmikke. on 6 september 2014, while driving his car in piotrków trybunalski, mr korwin-mikke exceeded the maximum speed allowed in an urban area by 32 km/h, i.e. 50 km/h. this behaviour constitutes an offence within the meaning of article 92a of the polish law of 20 may 1971 establishing the code of offences, in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the polish law of 20 june 1997 on road traffic. a decision by the european parliament is necessary for the action against mr korwin-mikke to proceed. since, although mr korwin-mikke was already a member of the european parliament at the time of the facts, the alleged offence and the subsequent prosecution clearly have nothing to do with his mandate as a member of the european parliament, i am voting for the waiver of this immunity.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament must vote on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke. the driver is suspected of having committed an offence for exceeding the maximum speed permitted in the polish city of piotrków trybunalski. the alleged offence is not directly or manifestly connected with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament and does not constitute an opinion or vote in the exercise of his duties as a member. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the request for waiver of mr korwin-mikke's immunity, which follows a speeding offence, is not related to the member's political activity. the french delegation of the enf group therefore voted in favour.
in writing. this report concerns the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity of the non-attached polish member of parliament janusz korwin-mikke. the facts alleged against mr korwin-mikke relate to a traffic offence, namely exceeding the speed limit in the town of piotrków trybunalski by 32 km/h. the prosecutor of the republic of poland has requested authorisation to bring proceedings against mr korwin-mikke. i have voted for the waiver of immunity, as i have found that the offence charged has no connection with mr korwin-mikke's office and activities as a member of parliament, nor with any political opinion he may express.
in writing. i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of janusz korwin-mikke, a non-attached polish member of parliament. the alleged offence against mr korwin-mikke is exceeding the speed limit in the city of piotrków trybunalski of 32 km/h. the prosecutor of the republic of poland has requested authorisation to bring proceedings against mr korwin-mikke. i voted for the waiver of immunity, since the alleged offence is not directly related to mr korwin-mikke's duties as a member of the european parliament, it does not concern a political opinion expressed by him and the procedure is not intended to prejudice the political activity of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity to allow the police and judicial forces to conduct their respective investigations.
in writing. ‒ the report, at second reading, considers that the european commission is the most competent body to combat customs fraud effectively. the text provides for the strengthening of the customs union and the internal market and for direct access by the union authorities to information circulating between member states to enable the proper application of customs regulations to be monitored. they also want to regulate the flow of goods in order to prevent such infringements as far as possible. we strongly dispute the idea that the european institutions are the most effective in combating customs fraud. since its creation, the internal market has been deregulated and deregulated by free-trade advocates. these offences are the consequence. we believe that the member states are best placed to put an end to this fraud, thanks in particular to customs, whose scope of action has been extremely limited since the ratification of the maastricht treaty. i therefore voted for the motion to reject.
in writing. ‒ the internal market has shown its inability to protect our producers and consumers alike, which is why we call for the return of national borders and customs regulations, the nation being the optimal level for rigorous management of the flow of goods and for an effective fight against customs fraud and infringements. that is why i could not vote in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation on the proper application of customs and agricultural regulations is intended to improve the customs union and strengthen the internal market, regulate imports and exports of goods and control trade data and claims that the commission will be more effective in this respect than the member states. this vote concerns the amendment rejecting the commission's proposal on this customs union and the centralisation of trade information by a federal body and i therefore voted in favour. the fn, on the other hand, favours the restoration of national borders and customs regulations, since the eu is currently unable to protect its trade or geographical borders.
in writing. ‒ the political will underlying the functioning of the european union and fully assumed is to establish free trade between the member states, but also with the rest of the world. this has led capital holders to install the tools of production in countries where the cost of labour is lowest and where the conditions of employment are harshest, whether within the union or better outside. this has enabled them to produce their products at low cost and sell them in developed countries without the risk of having to pay customs duties. this was followed by an acceleration of the industrialisation of the brics countries and, conversely, an explosion of unemployment in the high-labour-cost countries of the union. today, to send the commission information which could facilitate this deadly system even more would undoubtedly lead to a worsening of unemployment and poverty in our countries. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ the report, at second reading, considers that the european commission is the most competent body to combat customs fraud effectively. the text provides for the strengthening of the customs union and the internal market and for direct access by the union authorities to information circulating between member states to enable the proper application of customs regulations to be monitored. they also want to regulate the flow of goods in order to prevent such infringements as far as possible. we strongly dispute the idea that the european institutions are the most effective in combating customs fraud. since its creation, the internal market has been deregulated and deregulated by free-trade advocates. these offences are the consequence. we believe that the member states are best placed to put an end to this fraud, thanks in particular to customs, whose scope of action has been extremely limited since the ratification of the maastricht treaty. i therefore voted for the motion to reject.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the rejection amendment because i am in favour of the return of national borders and customs regulations, which are the effective means of rigorously managing the flow of goods. customs remain an effective tool of economic sovereignty and protection, which is currently eluding the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the detection and prevention of customs fraud by developing the exchange of information and data between the european commission and the member states, through a review of the electronic customs system. the european commission will now be able to request information from member states for the purposes of a fraud investigation. the report also strengthens the protection of personal data. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that fraud in general is an obstacle to the rule of law and that it penalizes citizens by reducing the effectiveness of european public policies.
in writing. it is essential to defend the food security of europeans. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which strengthens customs controls, fraud prevention and data exchange at european level. it is essential to increase our commitment at european level to protect our farmers against fraud by ensuring that customs regulations are properly applied.
in writing. ‒ the proposed report continues the union's trade and customs logic which has been in place for several decades. the basic idea of this policy is to give supranational authorities a place and an effectiveness, however rarely proved, in the control of goods from third countries. in addition to the many risks of massive imports into the union, without any real restriction in favour of national and local production, the strengthening of the internal market means the complete free movement of goods within the union. in the face of worrying innovations such as gmos or nanotechnologies in the food sector, such laxity is contrary to the freedom of sovereign nations and their legitimacy in controlling their territory. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection amendment, the only vote proposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is in favour of giving the commission greater powers.
in writing. ‒ the report, at second reading, considers that the european commission is the most competent body to combat customs fraud effectively. the text provides for the strengthening of the customs union and the internal market and for direct access by the union authorities to information circulating between member states to enable the proper application of customs regulations to be monitored. they also want to regulate the flow of goods in order to prevent such infringements as far as possible. we strongly dispute the idea that the european institutions are the most effective in combating customs fraud. since its creation, the internal market has been deregulated and deregulated by free-trade advocates. these offences are the consequence. we believe that the member states are best placed to put an end to this fraud, thanks in particular to customs, whose scope of action has been extremely limited since the ratification of the maastricht treaty. i therefore voted for the motion to reject.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on mutual assistance between the administrative authorities of the member states and cooperation between them and the commission to ensure the proper application of customs and agricultural regulations.
in writing. ‒ the report in this second reading claims:- improve the customs union and strengthen the internal market - regulate the entry and exit of goods and prevent infringements and fraud - establish direct access by eu authorities to information flowing between member states to enable control of the proper application of customs regulations - control trade data on imports and exports and transit of goods - that the commission will be more effective than all member states in anticipating and preventing customs fraud. we call for the return of national customs frontiers and regulations, which is the optimum level for rigorous management of the flow of goods and for an effective fight against customs fraud and infringements. it is worth recalling that the european union's territory is no longer protected at its borders, whether commercial or geographical. the market is deregulated and the territory wide open. customs remain an effective tool of economic sovereignty and protection which is currently beyond the reach of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment rejecting this text which seeks to strengthen the internal market of the eec by strengthening the commission's powers to manage and prevent customs fraud. the customs authorities of each country remain the most relevant level for effectively combating customs fraud and customs infringements. it is therefore inconsistent to give more power to the commission which is responsible for this unregulated and unprotected market.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to adapt a 1997 regulation in order to make the means of combating customs fraud more effective, particularly in the area of origin and misdeclaration of import or export operations. however, the stated objective of strengthening the means of combating fraud is largely incompatible with the external trade and customs policy as practised by the commission. the new eu customs code (customs 2020 programme) continues to place fluidification and market penetration as the main objectives of the eu. this has led customs to limit the time goods are stopped at the border to a maximum of 4 minutes, since less than 1% of containers are checked. the system proposes to strengthen the means to combat customs fraud, but it fits very well into the liberal logic of the eu. the new instruments focus on strengthening risk analysis and reserve a very limited place for physical control. the whole text is a sham to justify the state of the frontiers. i am abstaining in order not to encourage the current situation.
in writing. ‒ the report, at second reading, considers that the european commission is the most competent body to combat customs fraud effectively. the text provides for the strengthening of the customs union and the internal market and for direct access by the union authorities to information circulating between member states to enable the proper application of customs regulations to be monitored. they also want to regulate the flow of goods in order to prevent such infringements as far as possible. we strongly dispute the idea that the european institutions are the most effective in combating customs fraud. since its creation, the internal market has been deregulated and deregulated by free-trade advocates. these offences are the consequence. we believe that the member states are best placed to put an end to this fraud, thanks in particular to customs, whose scope of action has been extremely limited since the ratification of the maastricht treaty. i voted against it.
in writing. this recommendation on the proper application of customs and agricultural regulations aims to improve the customs union and strengthen the internal market, as well as to regulate imports and exports of goods and to control trade data. it concludes that the commission will be more effective in this respect than the member states. however, this vote concerns the amendment rejecting the commission's proposal on the customs union and the centralisation of trade information by a federal body. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's external borders are not crossed by the eu's external borders.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which strengthens the union's and the member states' capacities to fight customs fraud by developing exchanges of information and relying on new technologies. this includes modernising the anti-fraud information system (afis) and the procedures for exchanging messages on the status of containers of goods. the measures adopted represent an investment of eur 60 million over the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation on the proper application of customs and agricultural regulations is intended to improve the customs union and strengthen the internal market, regulate imports and exports of goods and control trade data and claims that the commission will be more effective in this respect than the member states. this vote concerns the amendment rejecting the commission's proposal on this customs union and the centralisation of trade information by a federal body and i therefore voted in favour. the fn, on the other hand, favours the restoration of national borders and customs regulations, since the eu is currently unable to protect its trade or geographical borders.
in writing. ‒ given the intensity of global and intra-european agricultural trade, it is important to ensure that customs and agricultural regulations are properly applied and respected. the european parliament is currently analysing the council's position and should reach agreement on this text. i voted against the jaakonsaari report, which rejected the council's position.
in writing. ‒ the report in this second reading claims:- improve the customs union and strengthen the internal market - regulate the entry and exit of goods and prevent infringements and fraud - establish direct access by eu authorities to information flowing between member states to enable control of the proper application of customs regulations - control trade data on imports and exports and transit of goods - that the commission will be more effective than all member states in anticipating and preventing customs fraud. i object to all the points mentioned above. i therefore voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the text.
in writing. ‒ according to the regulations in force within the european union - regulation 1007/2009, trade in seal products and imports is prohibited. the wto had prohibited the inclusion of two derogations in the regulation. one of these laws allowed the trade in seals if the products were made from seals hunted by the inuit or any other "indigenous community". the report in question seeks to lift the wto ban. he defends the inuit's right to live according to their traditions and customs, especially since hunting is the main source of livelihood for these communities. it is regrettable that this report does not deal with the other wto waiver. the aim of the project was to enable indigenous populations to sustainably control the overpopulation of seals in certain areas, which has a negative impact on the fishing activity of several indigenous communities, as seals feed on large quantities of fish. even if it is not enough, this report is moving in the right direction. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which defends the right of the inuit and other indigenous communities to live according to their traditions and therefore, in this case, authorizes the trade in products derived from their hunting under two conditions: on the one hand, if the hunting is carried out for the subsistence of these communities and, on the other hand, if animal welfare is taken into account, that is, if the animals hunted are not unnecessarily harmed. this derogation, which had been suspended by the wto, seems to me to be fully justified.
in writing. ‒ regulation 1007/2009 prohibits trade in seal products within the european union and includes two derogations. following a challenge, the wto banned seal hunting and rejected the two exceptions and this report must redefine the framework for the first exception. this would allow the inuit to commercialize the seal products that they had killed for their own subsistence rather than throwing them into the sea. the second derogation for small-scale hunting is on the contrary denounced in this report. i understand the notions of sovereignty, of defending the local traditions of the communities and for these reasons i voted in favour. however, as a member of the animal welfare intergroup, i will be keeping a close eye on this report and this subject since i believe that encouraging the marketing of these seal products in the eu (while it was banned from 2009 to date) will encourage the hunting of seals.
in writing. ‒ until now, the law has prohibited trade in seal products with two exceptions. the first was the result of hunting by indigenous communities. the second legalised the practice of hunting seals to control their numbers. in the face of objections from norway and canada, the world trade organization decided to ban the marketing of seal products outright. this report condemns the wto decision and calls for a return to the abolition of the first derogation concerning inuit hunting only. we consider this request to be consistent and acceptable, since these communities live off the proceeds of their hunting. as the report says, they will still be able to sell the products derived from the seal, the remains of which are thrown into the sea because there are no other outlets. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because i believe that seal hunting ensures the survival of indigenous communities and also allows for effective regulation of fish stocks by regulating the overpopulation of seals in certain areas.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the review of the exceptional regime provided for in european legislation concerning trade in seals. the report introduces new criteria for trade in game products by inuit and other local communities and puts a definitive end to the marketing of products from small-scale, non-profit-making fishing for the sole purpose of sustainable management of marine resources. i think that the report is balanced and aims to bring it into line with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ under a european regulation of 2009, trade in seal products was prohibited throughout the community. the union had, however, maintained two exceptions to this ban: one for inuit communities, for whom trade in skins or other derived products is necessary for their subsistence, and a second allowing small-scale marketing of seal products in the context of marine resource management. however, these two exceptions were not acceptable under wto law, whose dispute settlement body issued its findings in june 2014, invalidating both exceptions. european legislation had therefore to be adapted accordingly. by amending the exemption granted to the inuit community to take better account of animal welfare considerations and by removing the other exemption, the union is bringing itself into line with international trade law. however, special provisions for inuit and indigenous communities will be maintained to preserve their traditional ways of life. however, it is regrettable that the commission did not carry out an impact assessment of this regulation, which would have allowed a better understanding of the effects of the abolition of these two exceptions.
in writing. ‒ preserving biodiversity is one of the topics i am committed to in the european parliament. the restriction of trade in seal products is part of a mechanism to hold states responsible for this through trade measures. however, i support the exception in favour of indigenous peoples. the trade in seal products from the local communities' seal hunting is a means of subsistence for the local communities. that is why i have decided to support this report.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because i believe that indigenous peoples should be able to live according to their most ancient traditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. it was important to introduce stricter rules on trade in seal products. the new rules are designed to extend the ban to products of hunting in order to protect fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ according to the regulations in force within the european union - regulation 1007/2009, trade in seal products and imports is prohibited. the wto had prohibited the inclusion of two derogations in the regulation. one of these laws allowed trade if the products were made from seals hunted by the inuit or any other "indigenous community". the report in question seeks to lift the wto ban. the report defends the inuit's right to live according to their traditions and customs, especially since hunting is the main source of livelihood for these communities. it is regrettable that this report does not deal with the other wto waiver. the aim of the project was to enable indigenous populations to sustainably control the overpopulation of seals in certain areas, which has a negative impact on the fishing activity of several indigenous communities, as seals feed on large quantities of fish. the text is a step in the right direction in its defence of indigenous peoples and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague cristian-silviu busoi on trade in seal products, which aims to implement the wto recommendations and decisions on the subject. the report revises the exceptions to the general ban on trade in seal products, introducing new criteria and deleting one of the exceptions. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to align european legislation with the recommendations and decisions of the wto. in particular, the wto has requested that one of the two derogations from the eu embargo on seal products be lifted. this is the 'grm derogation' which allowed 'products from small-scale, non-profit-making fishing for the sustainable management of marine resources'.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to redefine the framework for the first ic exception in order to respect the conclusions and recommendations of the wto and thus allow indigenous peoples to live again within a well-defined framework from the fruits of their hunting and traditions. this would allow them to sell the products of the seals that are now often thrown overboard for lack of commercial opportunities. the decision of the european court of justice of 3 september 2015 has just enshrined this right of the "indigenous communities". the report, however, denounces the second 'grm' derogation to allow small-scale sealing to ensure the sustainable management of these resources. the 'indigenous communities' must be allowed to continue to live according to their traditions and customs. this is especially true since hunting is the main source of livelihood for these communities. the wto's prohibition on allowing indigenous populations to sustainably manage the overpopulation of seals in certain regions, which negatively impacts the fishing activity of certain communities (seals feed on very large quantities of fish), is regrettable. voting for
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it defends the right of the inuit to live according to their traditions and allows the trade in products derived from their hunting while making efforts to avoid any abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which reviews the two derogations from regulation 1007/2009 on trade in seal products. the first derogation (grm) allowed small-scale hunting to regulate marine resources. it was repealed because it was considered too restrictive and too difficult to measure. this regulation maintains that repeal and does not intend to reinstate it. the second derogation (indigenous communities) allowed trade in seal products hunted by the inuit or any other 'indigenous community'. it too had been repealed by the wto. this regulation seeks to restore it so that the inuit can continue to live according to their traditions and customs.
in writing. ‒ in 2009, the european parliament and the council adopted regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 banning trade in seal products within the european union. however, two exceptions remain: products from inuit hunting (ci derogation) and products from hunting for the sole purpose of sustainable, small-scale and non-profit-making management of marine resources (grm derogation). norway and canada, both exporters of seal products, have challenged this decision in the world trade organization (wto). the wto dispute settlement body (dsb) ruled to uphold the general ban on seal products but rejected the two exceptions on the grounds of an obstacle to free competition. in order to comply with the dsb decision, the proposed text deletes the derogation grm and specifies the conditions for the application of the derogation ci . i am against the use of private justice to arbitrate between the general human interest of protecting biodiversity and the interests of the seal traders. however, the text proposed to us maintains the measures for the conservation of seals while allowing the inuit to hunt them, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ according to the regulations in force within the european union - regulation 1007/2009, trade in seal products and imports is prohibited. the wto had prohibited the inclusion of two derogations in the regulation. one of these laws allowed trade if the products were made from seals hunted by the inuit or any other "indigenous community". the report in question seeks to lift the wto ban. the report defends the inuit's right to live according to their traditions and customs, especially since hunting is the main source of livelihood for these communities. it is regrettable that this report does not deal with the other wto waiver. the aim of the project was to enable indigenous populations to sustainably control the overpopulation of seals in certain areas, which has a negative impact on the fishing activity of several indigenous communities, as seals feed on large quantities of fish. even if it is not enough, this report is moving in the right direction. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 prohibits trade in seal products derived from and imported from the european union. it provides for two exemptions: the indigenous community exemption, which allows such trade if it is carried out by the inuit or any other 'indigenous community'; the derogation for the management of marine resources, which allows products from hunting for the sole purpose of sustainable management of marine resources. following the complaint lodged by norway and canada with the wto, the latter suspended the second exception, forcing the european union to revise its regulation. it is therefore proposed that only the exception for indigenous communities should be retained, which is a pity, but is still preferable to no derogation at all. the vote will therefore be in favour.
in writing. this report on trade in seal products relates to regulation 1007/2009 which prohibits trade in seal products within the eu and includes 2 derogations. however, following a conflict, the wto banned seal hunting and rejected the two exceptions. the purpose of this report is therefore to redefine the scope of the first exception. the report advocates the exemption for the inuit, who could then sell the seal products that are killed for subsistence purposes rather than throwing them into the sea. the second derogation, however, is for small-scale hunting. i voted for this text because i defend local traditions and the sovereignty of the people, but as a member of the intergroup on animal protection, i will remain vigilant on this report and this subject since i consider that encouraging the marketing of these seal products in the eu (while it has been banned since 2009) will encourage seal hunting.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal to amend the european union regulation on trade in seal products. since 2009, this trade has been prohibited in the european union, with the exception of products from hunts conducted by inuit or other indigenous communities ('ci derogation') and products from hunts conducted for the sole purpose of sustainable, small-scale and non-profit-making management of marine resources ('grm derogation'). the report proposes that the commission may adopt measures to limit these exceptions if it is established that seal hunting is carried out for primarily commercial purposes, rather than for subsistence purposes. the aim is to bring the union into line with the recommendations and decisions of the world trade organisation in this area.
in writing. ‒ regulation 1007/2009 prohibits trade in seal products within the european union and includes two derogations. following a challenge, the wto banned seal hunting and rejected the two exceptions and this report must redefine the framework for the first exception. the inuit could thus commercialize seal products if the animals were killed for the sole purpose of subsistence rather than being thrown into the sea. the second derogation, for small-scale hunting, is, on the contrary, denounced in this report. i support sovereignty and the defence of local traditions and for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we have adopted legislation amending the european regulation banning trade in seal products within the union, for products manufactured in the union but also imported. the new proposal is in line with the wto conclusions and recommendations and sets out very carefully the conditions under which seal products obtained from hunting are allowed to be placed on the market. i am glad that i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ regulation 1007/2009 was adopted, which prohibits trade in seal products within the european union. this regulation has two exceptions:- the ic (indigenous communities) exemption allowing trade in seal products if they have been hunted by the inuit or any other "indigenous community". - the grm (marine resources management) derogation authorising products from hunting for the sole purpose of sustainable management of marine resources. the wto ruled in favour of a total ban on seal hunting and rejected the two exceptions as unjustified in view of the moral concerns about animal welfare and the difficulty of distinguishing between individuals killed for the subsistence of 'indigenous communities' and those killed for commercial reasons. this report seeks only to redefine the framework of the first ci exception in order to comply with the wto conclusions and recommendations. the 'indigenous communities' must be allowed to continue to live according to their traditions and customs. this is especially true since hunting is the main source of livelihood for these communities. it is regrettable that the wto has prohibited the indigenous populations from sustainably regulating the overpopulation of seals. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ since 2009, trade in seal products has been banned in the european union due to the threat to the species and hunting in particular. some states, notably canada and norway, have requested exemptions from international law from the wto to allow certain communities, such as the inuit, to continue to hunt but also to maintain fish stocks that would be threatened by the increase in the number of seals. while inuit and other indigenous communities must be allowed to continue to hunt and sell seal products, the threat that seals could pose to fish stocks is not scientifically proven, which is why the european parliament has abolished this exception. the european parliament has been careful to accept only part of the wto's now accepted derogations, as part of the adaptation of european law, allowing inuit and indigenous communities to sell seal products, provided that the hunting methods take into account the welfare of the animal and are part of the traditions of the community and contribute to its subsistence. i think that is a balanced position, and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european commission recently proposed a directive temporarily banning the placing on the market of cloned animals and products derived from them. the text was substantially amended by the agri-envi joint committee to broaden its scope and to make consumers more confident. it's a positive one. it transforms the directive into a regulation, bans the import of products derived from clones and their descendants, requires a certificate from exporters to ensure that their food products comply with eu rules and sets up a traceability system. it also limits the scope of ttip by de facto blocking imports from the united states where cloning technology is allowed. however, it has a major weakness: to date, there is no technical means of checking whether a product is derived from a clone or not. to overcome this, our group proposed an amendment in plenary to ban all imports of products potentially affected by this opacity, because they come from herds raised in countries where cloning is carried out without any special traceability. the amendment did not obtain the required majority as we hoped, so i abstained on the whole text.
in writing. ‒ since the amendments tabled by our group were rejected, we consider that this text is insufficient and could not be supported as it stands. however, it may still be useful in restricting trade in cloned animals, provided that exporters have a reliable traceability system in place. that's why i finally decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report on the cloning of animals reared and bred for agricultural purposes is to prohibit the placing on the market of products derived from the breeding of certain animals. this text is a step in the right direction and is a brake on imports from the united states. however, there is no technical means to date to verify whether a product is derived from a clone. our enf members have amended the text to ensure the safety of european citizens and, as we cannot technically verify, it is preferable to suspend imports of products from countries which allow trade in cloned products. i voted against this text because, although it does impose some restrictions on imports, there is still no real traceability of cloned products (certificates are only guaranteed on the good faith of breeders and there is no proof that products are not the descendants of cloned animals). our amendment no 56 was not adopted on this point either.
in writing. ‒ regarding this report, i abstained on the final vote on this text. traceability is not enough to protect consumers.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a directive put to the vote by the european parliament aims to ban the placing on the market of products derived from the breeding of animals reproduced using cloning technology. in the light of the scientific information available (animal welfare, food safety or technological interest), the commission proposed a 'temporary' ban on the placing on the market of cloned animals and products derived from them. although i am in favour of the commission's initiative because it could potentially put a stop to imports from the united states where cloning technology has been used for some years, i think that european consumers do not have sufficient guarantees about the origin of the product: there are currently no technical means to check whether a product is derived from cloning. however, this prospect is not very secure. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to cloning for food purposes in the european union. as things stand, scientific research on the subject does not allow us to be persuaded of the results of cloning. the text adopted by parliament takes a strong stand against cloning and thus reinforces the commission's proposal in this respect. cloned animals, their offspring and reproductive material will not be allowed on european territory. of course, to ensure this, a realistic and reliable traceability system will have to be put in place. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which appropriately consolidates the commission's proposal, in particular by strengthening the ban on the cloning of animals for human consumption in europe. i believe that the suspension of the cloning technique for food purposes is in the interests of consumers and contributes to animal welfare. at present, no one can know the effects of tobacco on human health, although many scientific studies have shown that it causes suffering in animals. in this context, i think it would be appropriate to extend the ban on the placing on the market of foodstuffs derived from cloned animals.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because, on the one hand, this text slows down the flow of imports from the united states, which is what is holding back the scope of ttip. however, there is no technical means to date to check whether a product is derived from a clone.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes a ban on the marketing within the european union of animals, their germinal products and foodstuffs derived from these animals. this prohibition also applies to imports into the european union, with the establishment of a traceability system. i fully support the principle of this strict and definitive ban, but it does allow an exemption for basic research in this field and in relation to rare or endangered breeds. however, i would like to express reservations about the extension of the ban to the offspring of cloned animals, their germinal products and foodstuffs derived from those animals. i am convinced that such a traceability system, particularly in relation to exports of offspring and their products, will be extremely difficult to implement and will be subject to fraud by third countries. despite this reservation, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. parliament has confirmed its intention to ban the cloning of animals bred and bred for agricultural purposes. in order to ensure the best protection for european consumers, we reject the use of cloning for food purposes. we must ensure maximum transparency and traceability of the origin of the meat consumed in our territory. i welcome the decision to ban the marketing of foodstuffs derived from cloned animals. it benefits european citizens and protects animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to prohibit the cloning of farm animals for breeding and food supply purposes and thus their marketing within the european union. it strengthens the european commission's original proposal by extending the marketing ban to include the offspring of farm animals and products derived from them. the cloning technique has not yet been proven and its effects on human and animal health are still poorly assessed. it was therefore legitimate for our parliament, in accordance with the precautionary principle, to ban these products on its soil.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution which sends a strong signal. we have voted to ban cloning for food purposes. this is only the first step, we are now entering into negotiations with the council. we know that today european citizens do not want to consume cloned animals and that cloning techniques, which are still too poorly understood, have caused unnecessary suffering for animals. i would like to draw attention to the problem of traceability along the whole chain, which is still a problem. the labelling is still technically and scientifically complicated. it is now difficult to determine with certainty beyond the second generation whether the meat originally came from a clone or not. so let us be careful not to set up a system of legislation that is too burdensome for us to bear.
in writing. ‒ the trade in cloned animals is not desirable. as i said in the debate in plenary, the technique of cloning animals for farming purposes is a major risk to the independence of our agriculture and to biodiversity. the genetic models of these animals will eventually be owned by a small number of companies whose very small species will invade the market. the consequence will therefore be the homogenization of our cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and equines. the "best of all worlds" also has an agricultural translation, that of the total loss of contact with nature, reality and biodiversity. the proposed report supports the parliament and council directive which aims to restrict animal cloning. however, traceability and trade restrictions are not satisfactory, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it must close the door on cloning for food in europe. most european citizens do not want cloned animals on their plates. furthermore, the cloning technique is still poorly controlled, it causes great suffering to animals and its consequences for human health are still unknown. there is therefore no reason to clone animals for food. that is why i am very pleased with this decision of the european parliament, which reinforces the ban envisaged by the commission. it provides not only for a ban on the marketing of foodstuffs derived from cloned animals but also of foodstuffs derived from the offspring of such animals. the import of cloned animals and meat derived from them will also be prohibited, as will the import of food products derived from their offspring.
in writing. i voted for the ban on all forms of cloned food products in europe, which means that all imports will be banned. in this dossier, i wanted to express my concerns about food safety and to say no to the suffering of animals caused by cloning techniques and no to the artificial over-breeding of livestock. as a socialist and democrat, listening to the european citizens, it is essential for me to fight for the protection of human health, the environment, animal welfare and genetic diversity. that is why, with this vote, i supported the measures to ask the eu's trading partners to put in place traceability instruments for cloning products so that they can be prevented from entering european territory.
in writing. ‒ these proposals aim to suspend the use of the cloning technique for farmed animals, the placing on the market of cloned animals or live cloned embryos and the marketing of foodstuffs derived from cloned animals throughout the union. i share the conviction that the import of cloned animals and meat products derived from them for human consumption must continue to be prohibited. this is a strong demand from our citizens and we hear them. the absence of any necessary backtracking on the effects of cloning requires the utmost vigilance. we have already seen, for example, that cloning techniques were often poorly controlled and affected animal welfare. that is why i decided to support the resolution. i would, however, urge the greatest caution with regard to the traceability of cloned animals, which becomes difficult after the second generation. apart from the risk of legislative inflation which is often blamed on the eu, how could one be sure, in practice, that the milk in a cheese imported from argentina does not come from a cloned cow?
in writing. ‒ the european commission recently proposed a directive temporarily banning the placing on the market of cloned animals and products derived from them. the text was substantially amended by the agri-envi joint committee to broaden its scope and to make consumers more confident. it's a positive one. it transforms the directive into a regulation, bans the import of products derived from clones and their descendants, requires a certificate from exporters to ensure that their food products comply with eu rules and sets up a traceability system. it also limits the scope of ttip by de facto blocking imports from the united states where cloning technology is allowed. however, it has a major weakness: to date, there is no technical means of checking whether a product is derived from a clone or not. to overcome this, our group proposed an amendment in plenary to ban all imports of potentially affected products, since they come from herds raised in countries where cloning is carried out without any special traceability. the amendment did not obtain the required majority as we hoped, so i abstained on the whole text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the cloning of animals bred and bred for agricultural purposes. this vote must finally close the door to cloning for food in europe, and i welcome that. the technique is still poorly controlled, its effects on human health are still poorly understood and it raises questions in terms of animal suffering. however, the committee believes that the issue of traceability along the chain must remain open, while remaining realistic and pragmatic in the light of current techniques and the state of science.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which strictly prohibits the marketing of cloned animals, their germinal products and foodstuffs derived from them, as well as foodstuffs derived from the offspring of such animals. as the consequences for human health are unknown, it is important to protect the consumer and to ensure animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft directive on the prohibition of the marketing of products derived from cloned animals in europe. the majority of european citizens are in favour of this ban, while the consequences of the consumption of these products on humans are still unknown and cloning techniques cause significant suffering for animals. the epp group therefore voted in favour of this ban, as did a majority of meps in strasbourg. we cannot afford to compromise on the quality of the food of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ animal cloning had failed the 'new food' regulation for the first time. it was therefore agreed to return to this subject in a specific text. the commission proposes to 'temporarily' prohibit the placing on the market of cloned animals and products derived from them. this text is welcome because it will de facto put a brake on imports from the united states, and is therefore a blow to the scope of ttip. as originally put forward by the commission, the proposal was a benefit to us livestock (banning the technology in the eu but not imports). there is, however, a major problem: there is no technical means at present to check whether a product is derived from a clone. we can only rely on the good faith of the exporters. however, this prospect is not legally secure. cloning has been carried out for several years without any particular traceability, and american (but also argentinian, australian, japanese...) livestock is now "contaminated" in an immeasurable way. we abstain because our amendments to ensure the safety of european citizens have not been adopted: in the absence of technical verification, we prefer to suspend imports of products. voting abstention
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text because the amendment of our group enf (on the restriction of trade with countries allowing cloning) was rejected. the final text nevertheless has the merit of seeking to ban the consumption of meat from cloned animals or cloned animals' descendants in europe.
in writing. ‒ when asked to give its opinion on a proposal for a directive from the european commission under codecision, the european parliament had the opportunity, by voting in favour of the moi and sommer report, to ban outright the marketing of products derived from cloning in europe. as only the production of these foods has been banned so far, the challenge was to extend this ban to the import of meat from cloned animals or the offspring of cloned animals, and to ensure that these products could be effectively traced outside the eu. i had already called on the inta committee (which was asked to give its opinion on this text) to ensure that the precautionary principle prevails in the field of cloning. i therefore welcome the fact that the moi and sommer report supports the reasonable views of the european food safety authority (efsa), which has repeatedly expressed concern about the impact of cloning on human health or the environment. i also believe that the reservations expressed in the european parliament's text accurately reflect the ethical concerns of the citizens, who have been consulted on the subject on several occasions. finally, as i believe in a virtuous european agricultural model based on quality, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ cloning is a form of asexual reproduction, performed in a laboratory, in which animals are generated using genetic material from a cell of another animal. in 2008, the european parliament voted against cloning animals for agricultural purposes. however, it is authorised in certain third countries, including the united states, canada, argentina, brazil and australia. in 2013, the commission therefore strengthened the eu position by proposing a suspension of the use of the cloning technique for farmed animals, the placing on the market of cloned animals or live cloned embryos and the marketing of food products derived from cloned animals within the union. the report before us sets out and strengthens the commission's proposal. it also proposes to ban the import and placing on the market of the offspring of cloned animals. i am voting for this text which protects consumers and farmers alike.
in writing. ‒ the european commission recently proposed a directive temporarily banning the placing on the market of cloned animals and products derived from them. the text was substantially amended by the agri-envi joint committee to broaden its scope and to make consumers more confident. it's a positive one. it transforms the directive into a regulation, bans the import of products derived from clones and their descendants, requires a certificate from exporters to ensure that their food products comply with eu rules and sets up a traceability system. it also limits the scope of ttip by de facto blocking imports from the united states where cloning technology is allowed. however, it has a major weakness: to date, there is no technical means of checking whether a product is derived from a clone or not. to overcome this, our group proposed an amendment in plenary to ban all imports of potentially affected products, since they come from herds raised in countries where cloning is carried out without any special traceability. the amendment did not obtain the required majority as we hoped, so the member abstained on the entire text.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to ban the import of cloned animals, in the context of agricultural activity, in any form. however, it does not have an effective system in place to ensure compliance with the rule. in the case of imported animals or meat, the assurance that they are not cloned animals is based on the certificate given by the supplier. traceability therefore depends on the good faith of the parties and the reliability of traceability in the country of origin. this is clearly a significant risk. the only option is to ban all animal imports from countries where cloning is not prohibited. this proposal by the enl group was rejected, leading to abstention on this report.
in writing. the purpose of this report on the cloning of animals reared and bred for agricultural purposes is to prohibit the placing on the market of products derived from the breeding of certain animals. this text is a step in the right direction and is a brake on imports from the united states. however, there is no technical means to date to check whether a product is the result of cloning. our enl members have amended the text to ensure the safety of european citizens and, as we cannot technically verify, it is preferable to suspend imports of products from countries which allow trade in cloned products. even if it does put some restrictions on imports, there is still no real traceability of cloned products (certificates are only earned on the good faith of breeders and there is no proof that the products are not the descendants of cloned animals). moreover, our amendment no 56 was not adopted on this point either. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for a strict ban on the marketing in the eu of cloned animals, their offspring and foodstuffs derived from them. the aim is to protect european consumers from these products, which are authorised in certain third countries and whose traceability is not yet satisfactory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the cloning of animals of the bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species reared and bred for agricultural purposes, as it is necessary to retain the principle of a strict ban on the marketing of cloned animals, their germinal products and foodstuffs derived from these animals, but with certain specific exceptions to be introduced with the agreement of the competent authority (research, production of medicines, conservation of endangered species or rare breeds).
in writing. in 2008, the european parliament voted against the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes in the european union. to ensure that this prohibition is applied in practice, the european commission proposes to ban the placing on the market of cloned animals or live cloned embryos from third countries where cloning is authorised. in its resolution, the european parliament proposes to make this proposal more effective by extending the ban to trade in meat and products of animals whose ancestors are cloned. as i am strongly opposed to any form of cloning for commercial or agricultural purposes, i naturally voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report on the cloning of animals reared and bred for agricultural purposes is to prohibit the placing on the market of products derived from the breeding of certain animals. this text is a step in the right direction and is a brake on imports from the united states. however, there is no technical means to date to verify whether a product is derived from a clone. our enf members have amended the text to ensure the safety of european citizens and, in the absence of technical verification, it is preferable to suspend imports of products from countries which allow trade in cloned products. i abstained on this text because, although it does impose some restrictions on imports, there is still no real traceability of cloned products (certificates are only granted on the good faith of breeders and there is no proof that products are not indirectly derived from cloned animals). our amendment no 56 was not adopted on this point either.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has called by a large majority for a ban on cloning and the marketing of cloned animals and products derived from them and their descendants within the eu. the decision should put a permanent end to the marketing of cloned products and protect consumers in europe. the practice of cloning is still poorly controlled and the side effects on humans are not all known. i'm satisfied with that. i have nevertheless reminded the house in my vote that we must refrain from imposing unnecessary and burdensome constraints on our companies in this sector.
in writing. ‒ animal cloning is a technique that involves reproducing animals from stem cells. in addition to the many ethical constraints, these practices have raised scientific questions. it has been shown that animal cloning results in a loss of welfare for cloned animals and that their mortality rate after birth is considerably higher than for naturally born animals. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which aims to ban the consumption of cloned animals and their offspring in the european union, a ban which includes production, breeding and importation. the text also aims to increase the traceability of meat, embryos and seeds within the european union, which would help to avoid new food scandals.
in writing. ‒ meps today confirmed the vote in the agri and envi committees of june 2015 on a total ban on cloning in food and the use of clones, or their descendants, in food production. parliament has considerably strengthened the text proposed by the european commission, moving from an upgraded moratorium to a straightforward ban. meps have made sure that this ban will not only apply to meat and milk produced from clones but also to their offspring, where the real threat lies. citizens expect strong european rules to address very serious concerns about animal welfare, biodiversity and health risks. cloning, through the artificialisation of livestock, is incompatible with the agricultural model advocated by environmentalists. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's legislative resolution on animal cloning in the european union. the report reinforces the commission's initial proposal by extending the temporary ban on the cloning technique for farmed and reproduced animals to the import and placing on the market of the offspring of cloned animals, germinal products (sperm, ova and embryos) of cloned animals and foodstuffs derived from cloned animals or their offspring. there are several arguments in favour of this reinforcement: scientific studies show that cloning is a risk to animal welfare, the impact of the consumption of cloned food on human health is uncertain, cloning is not currently used for agricultural purposes in the european union and european consumers are largely opposed to it. finally, the report's enlargement concerns the main products for which cloning is used, so it was important to take these into account. i also supported the establishment of traceability systems at eu level to enforce the prohibitions in the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which allows the ban on cloning for food purposes; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. this text takes into account the problems that cloning creates in terms of animal welfare. finally, as regards the traceability to be established, we must ensure that it is practically applicable. i welcome the adoption of this text, which sends a strong signal and reminds us that we remain vigilant and uncompromising about the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ while the import of products derived from cloned animals or their descendants is not yet prohibited in europe, i have decided to support the moi & sommer report, which opposes cloning and aims to strengthen the precautionary principle in current legislation. while european legislation already prohibits the production of products resulting from this process of genetic modification, no regulation has yet prohibited the import of such products. with this report, the european parliament reaffirms its opposition to cloning and takes a further step towards food security and the protection of our citizens. traceability mechanisms will have to be respected by our trading partners and it will now be impossible to import products derived from cloned animals or their derivatives. beyond food safety and consumer protection, the report also raises animal welfare concerns, as the data we have on cloned animals show an unusual mortality rate. finally, as with any genetically modified organism, the report points to the real risk that cloning poses to our genetic diversity.
in writing. ‒ this text is welcome because it will de facto put a brake on imports from the us, so it is a blow to the scope of ttip. but there is still a major problem because there is no technical means to check whether a product is derived from a clone. of course, one can count on the good faith of exporters who, in the absence of traceability, will certainly refuse to draw up a certificate and will abandon exports to the eu. however, this prospect is not legally secure. cloning has been used for several years without any particular traceability, and american livestock is now "contaminated" in an immeasurable way. the enf group has amended the text submitted to the plenary to ensure the safety of european citizens: in the absence of technical verification, we prefer to suspend imports of products that may be affected from countries where trade in cloned products is authorised. we also propose to define better the term 'clone descendants'. our amendment was rejected, so i voted for abstention.
in writing. ‒ there are many ethical and moral issues surrounding animal cloning, both for ethical and moral reasons and for reasons of animal health and welfare. the majority of european citizens are opposed to this. there is still no evidence that these practices are not harmful to consumer health, the environment or animal welfare. this report thus helps to ensure that the precautionary principle is respected in the public health of european citizens. the report proposes the suspension of the use of cloning to produce food and the traceability of the offspring of cloned animals to prevent the placing on the market of foodstuffs derived from clones and/or their offspring. this traceability is particularly important as, while cloning for agricultural purposes is not authorised in the union, it is in some third countries. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal for a regulation which aims to better guarantee the food security and health of european citizens and i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with institutional issues and analyses the situation of specific fundamental rights. it called for the role of the federal republic of germany to be strengthened, as the fundamental rights agency has consistently advocated a considerable extension of the scope of fundamental rights. in addition, a significant part of the text is devoted to 'the rights of migrants'. the text also expresses concern at the "increasing phenomenon of rapid expulsion". it condemns member states that build 'walls and barbed wire to protect their borders'. the roma are systematically portrayed as victims of discrimination. this text is not just immigrationist. it is deeply destructive in its unreserved support for the incessant demands of lgbti groups such as the pseudo-right of transgender people to change their sex or the so-called right of same-sex people to marry. so this very politically correct report is in many respects unacceptable. because of the repeated attacks on the sovereignty of states and on the freedom of opinion of individuals contained in this motion for a resolution, i voted against its adoption.
‒ voting rights for foreigners, lgbti propaganda, promotion of diversity, fight against far-right parties, immigration, borderlessness, eu enlargement, etc. i could not, of course, endorse mrs ferrara's report.
in writing. this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu proposes to give a greater role to the fundamental rights agency (fra), which wants a significant expansion of the scope of application of fundamental rights. this leads her, in any document, to consider that roma are systematically discriminated against. in addition, a large part of the text is devoted to the rights of migrants and asylum seekers and the text is concerned with the procedures for speedy deportation or the construction of walls to protect our borders. this report is a good indication of the ideology of the eu on immigration. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu. this report advocates a greater role for the fra, the fundamental rights agency which wants a much wider scope of application of fundamental rights. much of the text is devoted to the "rights of migrants and asylum seekers". another example is the citizenship section of the report which advocates the granting of municipal and european voting rights to non-european foreigners.
in writing. ‒ in the report proposed by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the actions taken by member states to curb the growing insecurity in europe are considered an abuse of fundamental rights. instead of focusing on the real challenges facing europeans, such as the deterioration of security which directly threatens the lives of our fellow citizens, the european parliament prefers to condemn the legitimate means used by governments to enhance the security of citizens. worse still, the institution promotes openness in the face of the massive influx of migrants. in addition, parliament has recently taken the honour to criticise member states for their lack of effectiveness in integrating roma people. they are unaware, however, that no social inclusion programme will be effective unless they are willing to integrate themselves more closely and to respect the rules and customs of the member states. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european charter of human rights is an integral part of the legislative body of the european union. it is therefore imperative that these fundamental rights be respected in all member states. unfortunately, this is not always the case. we must show the rest of the world that we have built our project on unconditional values and that respect for fundamental rights is the cornerstone of it. we have already made enormous progress in this area and the european union is an example to many. we must continue along this path at all costs. i did, however, abstain in that vote. while i fully agree with the principle of this report, which is to establish the state of play of fundamental rights in the union, i do not agree with all the provisions in the text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by laura ferrara. i particularly welcome his willingness to set up a european mechanism for the evaluation and monitoring of democracy. the european union needs instruments to protect the values enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. a balance needs to be struck between weak or non-existent legislative instruments and the nuclear option provided for in article 7 of the treaty on european union - suspension of a member state's voting rights in the event of a serious and persistent breach of the union's values. the democratic model defended and promoted by the european union is now in shambles. once their integration into the union is completed, too many member states forget the democratic principles they committed to applying during the accession process. the report has the merit of highlighting these shortcomings through an almost exhaustive list of rights and freedoms that are sometimes threatened in some member states - from freedom of expression to children's rights, to lgbti rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is purely federalist and immigrationist, and against which the enl group tabled several amendments.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes the development of an internal strategy on fundamental rights based on article 2 of the treaty on european union. the report covers a range of violations that have occurred in europe in the areas of freedom of expression, data protection, the impact of the economic crisis, corruption and the situation in prisons. it also deals with subjects of european competence such as the fight against discrimination and the protection of the rights of migrants and refugees. the rapporteur also proposes the introduction of a rather unrealistic deterrent instrument to prevent violations of fundamental rights in the states, a 'european semester on fundamental rights', which is intended to replace de facto the intervention of the european commission with the traditional action of the court of justice in this field. the epp group considered this proposal, among others, to be more ideological than realistic, and tabled an alternative resolution reaffirming its members' commitment to fundamental rights in europe and addressing the same issues in a more balanced approach. since this alternative resolution was rejected, as were some of our amendments to the main resolution in plenary, i decided to abstain.
in writing. it is regrettable that the left is once again using the pretext of fundamental rights to get the european parliament to adopt many unrealistic provisions which are outside its competence. our party is firmly committed to the protection of fundamental rights in the european union, which are too often undermined. we therefore voted in favour of a resolution which deals with this situation with pragmatism and realism. i was not able to support the resolution adopted by the left. it not only puts the strengthening of security in opposition to the protection of fundamental rights, which are two complementary principles and indispensable to the protection of european citizens; but it also violates the principle of subsidiarity in europe, particularly as regards the family. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the economic crisis, the effects of which are still very much felt throughout europe, has increased the precariousness and vulnerability of many european citizens, who are no longer able to fully enjoy their civil, economic, cultural and social rights. there is also the unprecedented migration crisis facing europe with the arrival of many refugees, which requires us to rethink our migration policy in a spirit of solidarity. refugees must be welcomed in decent conditions in all member states and the european coastguards must be strengthened. in the long term, a common, effective and realistic european migration and asylum policy will be needed the protection of fundamental rights is a dual responsibility of the member states and the institutions of the union, but the situation can best be assessed at community level. the establishment of a scoreboard under the control of the commission with common and objective criteria across the union would thus make it possible to better assess the situation at eu level.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on this resolution. despite my attachment to fundamental rights in europe, i supported the epp's alternative resolution, and i find the ferrara report to be a 'make-believe' and to make ideological proposals that are unrealistic. i also regret the unrealistic call for all member states to evaluate any national counter-terrorism measures (development of training programmes and platforms of good practice and exchange of information between law enforcement authorities and member states and europol). finally, the question of lgbti marriage is a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report, which is given a very general title, is based on a series of politically correct elements. the rapporteur and some amendments from the radical left would thus include fundamental rights such as the rights of sexual minorities, gay marriage and the recognition of transgender identities. in addition, there is the stigmatisation of popular movements and certain euro-realist views, as well as calls for mass immigration. in the face of such a display of a strong legal concept and the misuse of common european ideas for ideological purposes, i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it advocates the right to vote in local elections for non-european nationals.
in writing. ‒ this report on human rights in the european union is surreal. the most extravagant innovations are developed, contrary to natural law and to the genius of europe: the exaltation of all sexual deviations, hedonism without borders, generalized indifference, etc. on the other hand, nothing about the proliferation in many european countries of laws restricting freedom of expression, once one of the essential achievements of our societies. in france, there have been many laws restricting this freedom, in history, politics and morality: the pleven law, the gayssot law, the perben law and the taubira law. in germany there are hundreds of such cases, each more heinous than the last. here and elsewhere, academics, lawyers, politicians, ordinary and honest citizens are excluded, ruined and imprisoned. these facts are known, and they are carefully avoided. and this is the 21st century ! the only echoes you are sending are those of a reinforcement or generalization of this repression. all this testifies to the fundamental hypocrisy of the vast majority of european political elites today.
in writing. i strongly and convincingly supported this report of the parliament on the situation of fundamental rights in 2012 and 2013. it is necessary to present objectively the failures which can be identified in one or other of the member states in terms of respect for fundamental rights. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which provides a frank and courageous analysis of the situation. i regret, however, that the progressive political groups were unable to present a common front on such a subject. in addition to a particularly archaic view of society, which here and there infringes on certain fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and the media, the rights of migrants, equality between women and men and the rights of disabled people, the conservative right has refused to see an effective monitoring mechanism put in place to monitor the respect of fundamental rights in the union. the findings on the violation of fundamental rights in the eu are unfortunately still persistent. this alarming finding is a good reason for the european institutions to have the necessary tools.
in writing. ‒ this report by a member of parliament from the five star movement proposes a strategy on fundamental rights in the eu that is completely devoid of objectivity. we have here a report which sets out a series of slogans for an already established electorate rather than an analysis of the real situation of fundamental rights in europe. the report calls for the introduction of a mechanism for monitoring member states by an unelected eu agency, which amounts to denying the sovereignty of states and the role of their institutions. furthermore, without minimizing the situation of lgbti people who are facing real discrimination in some states, i think that using this report to advocate for marriage for all is still a negation of the debates taking place in some countries in europe. it is not the european parliament's job to trample on the cultural traditions of these countries by imposing its dogma on them in defiance of the principle of subsidiarity. finally, i see a tendency on the part of the left to disregard the intelligence services, which are essential links in the security of our fellow citizens. the obsession with transparency is a danger to our societies and a green light for the enemies of democracies.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with institutional issues and analyses the situation of specific fundamental rights. it called for the role of the federal republic of germany to be strengthened, as the fundamental rights agency has consistently advocated a considerable extension of the scope of fundamental rights. in addition, a significant part of the text is devoted to 'the rights of migrants'. the text also expresses concern at the "increasing phenomenon of rapid expulsion". it condemns member states that build 'walls and barbed wire to protect their borders'. the roma are systematically portrayed as victims of discrimination. this text is not just immigrationist. it is indeed deeply destructive in its unreserved support for the incessant demands of lgbti groups such as the pseudo-right of transgender people to change their sex or the so-called right of same-sex people to marry. so this very politically correct report is in many respects unacceptable. because of the repeated attacks on the sovereignty of states and on the freedom of opinion of individuals contained in this motion for a resolution, i voted against its adoption.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the ferrara report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2013-2014). the report put to the vote was a veritable 'catch-all' containing many ideological and unrealistic proposals, blurring the clear and strong message that the european parliament must convey on the issue of fundamental rights. for this reason, i supported the alternative resolution of my political group, the epp, which reiterates our group's commitment to fundamental rights and common european values. this much clearer and more balanced text calls in particular on the member states to ensure that all european policies are in conformity with the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the ferrara report is very ideologically driven, which is why the epp group proposed an alternative report, which i think was more consensual, but which was not adopted. nevertheless, it is important to defend fundamental rights in the eu, which is why i decided to abstain on the initial report and not to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. the report drawn up by laura ferrara is a veritable three swiss catalogue of politically correct evangelicalism, communitarianism and immigrationism. it aims in particular to encourage legal immigration and advocates the right to vote in local and european elections for third-country nationals. paragraph 165 condemns the fact that more than 15 million third-country nationals and 500 000 stateless persons in the european union are victims of discriminatory refusal to recognise their citizenship; calls for the respect of the fundamental right to citizenship by the european union and its member states . we can see where an inflationary view of fundamental rights can lead. even if some points were not taken into account, this report goes against common sense.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it uses human rights as a tool to justify further eu interference in the internal affairs of the member states. he also denounced the rise of 'xenophobic parties', which appeared to be an insulting and unacceptable attack on the front national.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which considerably expands the role of the fra (fundamental rights agency). the text condemns member states that build walls and barbed wire to protect themselves against illegal entry and calls for more and more legal entry routes for migrants. it goes even further by considering roma as victims rather than responsible for their own fate; and by granting municipal and european voting rights to non-european foreigners ! we are fundamentally against these decisions.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the european parliament was called upon, through a resolution, to draw up a report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. once again, the ferrara report focused on a period (2013-2014) marked by significant declines in respect for human and social rights. in my view, it has the merit of pointing out unambiguously the root causes of these violations, including the persistence of austerity policies that undermine the right to housing, education or health in many member states. i also share the resolution's worrying observation that the management of migration flows is too often approached in a repressive way, which undermines the rights of migrants. finally, the ferrara report rightly points out that the introduction of anti-terrorism measures must not jeopardise the right of european citizens to the protection of their privacy. i therefore supported the text unreservedly and strongly rejected the amendments of the european conservatives who, following their mentor viktor orban, simply sought to remove the chapter on freedom of the press from the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the parliament takes stock of the situation of fundamental rights in the eu every year. the rapporteur of the italian five star movement urges the member states and the commission to recognise the consequences of austerity policies and memoranda on citizens' rights: freedom of expression, increasing repression of social and trade union movements, discrimination against roma and migrants, etc. it has been a long time since such strong language was heard in this domestic chamber. the commission and the member states have reacted weakly to the mass spying practices establish responsibilities in relation to the illegal deportation and detention of detainees by the cia in european countries secularism and neutrality of the state are the best guarantees of non-discrimination . refusal of abortion to save a woman's life is a serious violation of human rights i welcome this serious work and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with institutional issues and analyses the situation of specific fundamental rights. it called for the role of the federal republic of germany to be strengthened, as the fundamental rights agency has consistently advocated a considerable extension of the scope of fundamental rights. in addition, a significant part of the text is devoted to 'the rights of migrants'. the text also expresses concern at the "increasing phenomenon of rapid expulsion". it condemns member states that build 'walls and barbed wire to protect their borders'. the roma are systematically portrayed as victims of discrimination. this text is not just immigrationist. it is indeed deeply destructive in its unreserved support for the incessant demands of lgbti groups such as the pseudo-right of transgender people to change their sex or the so-called right of same-sex people to marry. so this very politically correct report is in many respects unacceptable. i voted against this motion for a resolution because of the repeated attacks on the sovereignty of states and on the freedom of opinion of individuals contained in it.
in writing. ‒ the european union has always been in favour of mass immigration, of blaming its citizens, who are responsible for the misery of the world and who are obliged, to atone for their fault, to welcome all peoples in search of a better future. that is again the meaning of this report. the roma are, as usual, considered victims of discrimination and are never responsible for their fate. migrants and those seeking international protection, i.e. most often illegal economic refugees, should have more legal access routes. the member states that wish to restrict these flows are pointed out, the right to vote in municipal elections is requested, and so on. such a text is clearly unacceptable, especially in the context of unprecedented migratory pressure. the only vote that is possible is therefore a resolute no.
in writing. this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu proposes to give a greater role to the fundamental rights agency (fra), which has consistently advocated a considerable extension of the scope of fundamental rights. this arrogant imperialism leads it, as in any document, to consider the roma as systematically discriminated against. a large part of the text is also devoted to the rights of migrants and asylum seekers, with reference to rapid expulsion procedures or the construction of walls to protect borders. this text is indicative of the sclerosis of the eu on immigration. i therefore voted against this immigration report.
in writing. i supported some of the measures in this text, particularly those proposing to strengthen the rights of women and children in the face of violence and gender inequality. on the other hand, i voted against the provisions in the text which state that there are insufficient legal immigration routes in the european union, while our reception capacity is already saturated and the european people are very generous. finally, i abstained on the final vote because this report calls for the weakening of the eu's external borders when we need protected and efficient external borders in return for free movement in the schengen area.
in writing. ‒ this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu proposes to give a greater role to the fundamental rights agency (fra), which has consistently advocated a considerable extension of the scope of fundamental rights. this arrogant imperialism leads it, as in any document, to consider the roma as systematically discriminated against. a large part of the text is also devoted to the rights of migrants and asylum seekers, with reference to rapid expulsion procedures or the construction of walls to protect borders. this text is indicative of the sclerosis of the eu on immigration. i therefore voted against this immigration report.
in writing. ‒ although i am a clear supporter of human rights and their observance, i had to abstain from this report because the proposal contains a number of left-wing principles which, if applied, will lead to a weakening of the state's position against criminals and terrorists, which of course will not benefit human rights, but will lead to their threat. i agree with much of the report on respect for fundamental rights in the eu, but because of the passages cited, i could not support it.
in writing. ‒ democracy, freedom and respect for human rights are the union's fundamental values. parliament regularly monitors and reports on the situation of fundamental rights in the union. i abstained this year because some of the aspects dealt with in this report fall more within the authority of the member states and the principle of subsidiarity. i'm very careful about that.
in writing. ‒ while it is essential that the european union focus on promoting human rights worldwide, it cannot at the same time turn a blind eye to the situation of fundamental rights within its borders. these rights and freedoms are required to be protected and respected by all member states in order to guarantee the effectiveness of democracy and the rule of law. i welcome the adoption of this report which presents a fair and comprehensive analysis of the main problems for fundamental rights in the union, advocating for ambitious and effective solutions to address them. it is a pity that parliament, because of the right-wing conservatives, has not been able to stand united on this very important issue. to avoid a multi-speed europe of rights, it is essential to have a european mechanism for monitoring compliance with fundamental rights, while facilitating the implementation of sanctions in case of abuse. whether it concerns media freedom, non-discrimination or the rights of migrants, the european institutions and the member states must assume their share of responsibility for improving the rights of all citizens and residents of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on fundamental rights in the european union. we have seen too often the lack of respect for democracy and fundamental rights in some european countries, but the european union does not have the necessary tools to enforce the commitment of all its member states in this area. at present, the fundamental rights of asylum seekers and migrants could be particularly threatened, so it is our duty to integrate this aspect into the union's migration policies and to put in place a harmonised and coherent european policy to respond to this crisis. other factors with a significant impact on economic, civil, social and cultural rights are the measures taken to address the financial and economic crisis. before such measures are put in place, an impact assessment on fundamental rights is necessary to ensure minimum levels that are essential for the respect of those rights. for all these reasons, we are today calling on the commission to create a european mechanism to assess the situation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in each member state of the european union using common and objective indicators.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. this paper takes stock of the main problems identified and proposes solutions to deal with them. it is a courageous and realistic analysis of human rights violations in the union, conducted with a concern for pragmatism and respect for fundamental european values. i welcome the request made by the european parliament to set up a new mechanism for monitoring the respect of fundamental rights, which is more effective than the existing one. above all, the report calls for a thorough review of the dublin regulation in order to establish a more humane and supportive migration system. in this sense, it is in line with the positions of the socialists and democrats.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a greater role for france, the fundamental rights agency which is constantly advocating a considerable expansion of the scope of fundamental rights. as in all comparable eu documents, roma are systematically considered as victims of discrimination and are never considered responsible for their own fate. a considerable part of the text is devoted to the rights of migrants and applicants for international protection . it contains unacceptable demands such as concern about the growing phenomenon of rapid expulsion, condemnation of member states that build walls and barbed wire to protect their borders, etc. the report also condemns the lack of legal entry routes. in the section on citizenship, the report advocates the granting of municipal and european voting rights to non-european foreigners. it is a fundamentally federalist, politically correct and immigration report, drawn up by an efdd (five star) mep. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that a strong majority in the european parliament supported this report. it highlights the backsliding of the eu and its member states in the field of human rights, as highlighted in numerous un and council of europe reports. it is a good report which lays down the criteria for the many violations of human rights in the member states in the name of the fight against insecurity, terrorism, so-called irregular immigration, discrimination and violence suffered by certain populations, especially the most vulnerable, including as a result of austerity policies, and also condemns the eu's inability to sanction member states that violate its democratic principles and values. i welcome the adoption of the chapter in this report condemning the eu and member states' migration policy, including the many migrants who have died at sea and the failure to stop them, and the strengthening of border security. i welcome the adoption of amendments tabled by me on behalf of my group, gue/ngl, calling for the fight against all forms of racism and the implementation of the principle of solidarity between member states.
in writing. ‒ the hearings underlying this report were allegedly aimed at improving the procedure for appointing european commissioners. voting for these 'improvements' would be tantamount to recognising the legitimacy of the european commission. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to make the choice of commissioners even less free for the member states than they already are, by forcing them to submit a double nomination of a man and a woman, so that the eurocrats can choose personalities who are more in line with their harmful ideology.
in writing. this report on the procedures and practices governing hearings of commissioners, lessons learned from 2014 takes stock of the juncker commission's recruitment process and the hearings held in parliament. he nevertheless dared to welcome the democratic nature of the approach, since it would make it possible to get closer to the eu citizens through the parliament's vote of confidence... just look at the audience on the website to see that it is not. various measures are proposed to improve this process, such as a deadline for the submission of candidates, better control of declarations of financial interests (including family interests), respect for parity in member states' proposals (not yet the case, what then?). finally, he proposes that the rejection or acceptance of the candidate be decided at a meeting of the coordinators, whereas it would obviously be more democratic if all the members of the committee concerned could vote on this point ... moreover, voting in favour of this text would be tantamount to giving credit to this appointment procedure and thus to the commission by extension. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution is yet another sign of the commission's willingness to give itself undue powers. parliament called on the member states to nominate two people each for a commissioner, leaving the final choice to the european institutions. this reform of the hearing procedures further strengthens the commission's discretion in selecting candidates for the post of commissioner. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to draw conclusions from the hearings of the 'commissioner-candidates' in the context of the appointment of the juncker commission. following the european elections, newly elected meps receive the commissioners-designate in the european parliament and ask them about the political objectives and principles that will guide their actions over the next five years. this report therefore looks at some issues which could lead to changes in the current procedure. the possibilities for the rapporteur include the possibility for states to put forward at least two candidates: one male and one female; a review of the hearings of vice-presidents with horizontal responsibilities; or the opportunity to ask horizontal questions concerning the composition, structure and working methods of the commission, which cannot be addressed by a single commissioner. the proposed amendments are designed to strengthen the democratic control of the european parliament over the appointment of the college of commissioners, so i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ while the report suggests some improvements, however minor, other major proposals are unacceptable. the double candidacy of men and women which the member states will have to propose is one of them, it is a democratic façade and a good feeling that heralds a serious drift where the states will only be able to suggest several candidates that the european commission will choose freely. i therefore voted against this report which seeks to establish the position of the european commission, which is clearly lacking in democratic values. the current european supranational system cannot be reformed if it remains rooted in the denial of the sovereignty of the nation states of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i do not want to endorse the european commission, its existence and its functioning in any way.
in writing. ‒ whatever the way of auditioning future commissioners, this procedure is a caricature of democracy. european commissioners are and will remain appointed officials, largely unknown to the public. their initial designation and the portfolio allocated to them are a matter of political balances and bargaining between member states. as for the hearings themselves, their organisation, discrimination against small groups and non-registered members, with rounds of speakers, length and number of extremely controlled speeches without replies or follow-up questions, they were for the most part highly formal. the organisation is certainly necessary since the overall time of the hearing is by definition limited. but in this case it gave the exercise an artificial character and prevented any real debate. finally, the fact that the approval of each commissioner is first or even exclusively validated by the coordinators of the political groups alone (thus excluding non-attached members) is completely undemocratic: it should be approved by a vote of at least all members of the relevant parliamentary committees. the rapporteur's proposal to allow this approval, for the most controversial candidates, by the epp and s&d groups alone is scandalous. as you will have understood, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report draws its substance from the hearings held to appoint european commissioners. voting for 'improvements' to the existing procedure would be tantamount to recognising the legitimacy of the european commission. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague richard corbett, which draws on the lessons learned from the european commissioner hearings held in 2014. this informal but constant practice over the last 20 years allows the european parliament to ensure the competence of the commissioners-designate and their european commitment prior to the validation of the composition of the european commission. the text recommends improving transparency and clarity in a number of aspects of the hearing procedure. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will allow for greater transparency in the selection of future commissioners.
in writing. ‒ the report takes stock of the juncker commission's recruitment procedure and the hearings held in parliament. he welcomed the democratic nature of the approach. the commission proposes several measures to improve the process: to impose on the member states a deadline for submitting candidates to facilitate organisation and the matching of each candidate with his portfolio; better control declarations of financial interests and include family interests; the commission has also proposed that the member states submit two candidates, one male and one female, in order to ensure parity. other technical organizational measures are proposed. the report proposes that the decision on whether to reject or accept the applicant be taken at a meeting of the coordinators. it would seem more democratic if all members of the committee were required to vote, especially since the proposed process simply excludes non-members. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include women in the workforce, and to extend it to men and women in the workforce. vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text for two reasons. firstly, because it fails to clarify sufficiently the procedure for choosing commissioners. secondly, and above all, because i refuse to endorse such a procedure, which would be tantamount to recognizing the legitimacy of the brussels commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this improvement in the procedure which gives the commission ever more legitimacy. although some measures are acceptable, we are formally opposed to the decision to introduce a dual male/female candidacy: we fear a drift where, eventually, all member states would have to submit a list of candidates and the commission would only have to choose the person it thinks is the right one.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the growing interest of the media and the public in the process of appointing commissioners and details the steps that could further improve the procedure . the text proposes, for example, that the questionnaire for future commissioners should contain 7 questions instead of 5... i denounce this charade by which we are made to believe that the process of appointing european commissioners is a model of democracy and transparency and i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the hearings underlying this report were allegedly aimed at improving the procedure for appointing european commissioners. voting for these 'improvements' would be tantamount to recognising the legitimacy of the european commission. i voted against it.
in writing. this report on the procedures and practices governing hearings of commissioners, lessons learned from 2014 takes stock of the juncker commission's recruitment process and the hearings held in parliament. he dared to welcome the democratic nature of the approach, since it would bring the eu citizens closer together through the parliament's vote of confidence... just look at the audience on the website to see that it is not. various measures are proposed to improve this process, such as a deadline for the presentation of candidates, better control of declarations of financial interests (including family interests), respect for parity in member states' proposals (should the number of commissioners be doubled?). finally, it proposed that the decision on whether to reject or accept the applicant be taken at a meeting of the coordinators. it seems more democratic that all the members of the committee concerned should be able to vote... moreover, voting in favour of this text would be tantamount to giving a blank check to this appointment procedure and ultimately to the commission. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the procedures and practices governing hearings of commissioners on the basis of lessons learned from 2014. these public hearings, which are not provided for in the treaties, were set up at the request of parliament some 20 years ago. candidates for the post of commissioner must appear before the parliamentary committee or committees responsible for their duties for a hearing before parliament votes confidence in the commission. these hearings are particularly useful because they give the parliament and the citizens the opportunity to discover the personality, general approach and priorities of each candidate nominated by the member states, and to assess his or her competence. it should be remembered that the european parliament has the power to reject a european commission whose composition is unsatisfactory.
in writing. this report gives an overview of the procedure for hearing european commissioners prior to their appointment. it proposes ways of improving this auditing process. but the proposals made in this report do not include any of the real democratic problems that arise with the holding of these hearings. for example, there is no provision to increase the weight of small political groups in the hearings of commissioners-designate. i therefore voted against this report, which i consider to be inadequate on one of the essential steps in the appointment of our commissioners.
in writing. ‒ some of the measures proposed are trivial or even good (such as better control of declarations of financial interests and inclusion of family interests), but the dual candidacy of men and women is ridiculous and infringes on the sovereignty of the member states with a certain risk of drift (soon, each state will propose several names and the eu will therefore choose the commissioner that suits it). in principle, i refuse to agree to the improvement of the procedure because that would be a way of recognising its legitimacy and the legitimacy of the european commission, which i formally contest. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the commissioners' hearing and lessons learned from the 2014 hearings. the report shall analyse the conditions under which the hearings were conducted in 2014 and may improve the conduct of future hearings.
in writing. ‒ some of the measures proposed are trivial or even good, but the double candidacy of men and women is ridiculous and encroaches on the sovereignty of the member states with the risk of drifting (soon, each state will be asked to propose several names and the eu will therefore choose the commissioner that suits it). in principle, to agree to the improvement of the procedure would be a way of recognising its legitimacy and the legitimacy of the european commission, which we formally contest. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ after the european elections and before their appointment, the european commissioners had come to appear before the parliamentary committees in their field of competence. a year later, the european parliament takes stock of the procedure. at the very least, it was not conclusive: from conflicts of interest to blackmail between political groups, these hearings were caricatural. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. it is impossible for the majority of this parliament to recognize this failure and draw the consequences. so the report welcomes the success of these hearings, and only timidly asks for control of possible conflicts of interest. the gue/ngl had tabled an amendment to avoid this kind of political blackmail. amendment obviously rejected. i therefore voted against this report, which draws no conclusions from the failure of these hearings and refuses to introduce any transparency into these procedures.
in writing. ‒ this is a report that gives european standards priority over national standards. in this case, the report is intended to regulate the conduct of the member states in all matters relating to freedom of information and the use of cryptographic systems or services. this is an area of direct concern to the strategic interests of states; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the european union has no legitimacy to intervene in national legislation and practice, particularly when it concerns defence and communications security, so i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union likes to lecture the world on morality, but as far as whistleblowers are concerned, what has it done for julian assange and edward snowden?
in writing. ‒ the report, 'human rights and technology in third countries', aims to encourage the use of encryption and censorship circumvention tools and the dissemination of tools for anonymous use of the internet. the report also calls for international protection for whistleblowers, activists and journalists, which can be useful at times, as was the case with snowden, but which must be used with caution to avoid the drift of such a system. the report includes amendments calling for data encryption in communication or for the commission to exclude international companies in the eu from eu procurement procedures ('companies cooperating with regimes that do not respect human rights'). if at first sight this demand seems legitimate, we must not be fooled by the notion of human rights seen through the prism of brussels technocrats and well-meaning people who would gladly classify russia or syria as such "regimes" but certainly not qatar or china... i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ respect for human rights is a fundamental value of the european union. the european charter of human rights is a binding part of the european legal system. it is true that certain technological advances, particularly in the area of surveillance, used by the wrong people, can have the effect of violating a person's fundamental rights. in such cases, action must be taken to ensure respect for freedom of expression and privacy. however, these technologies also have the potential to protect citizens and the environment. there must be a balance between respect for human rights and the safety of citizens everywhere. i voted against this report. this extremist text, which is supported by the most ideological factions on the left, condemns the use of new technologies in the field of security. we must not deprive ourselves of these effective instruments, which must nevertheless be carefully controlled.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it encourages the use of encryption and censorship-avoiding tools, the dissemination of tools allowing anonymous or pseudonymous use of the internet. once again the will of the people is overridden, and the union's standards on 'human rights' take precedence.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the growing impact of detection and surveillance systems on human rights in third countries, which according to the rapporteur undermines existing trust in information and communication technologies. the report calls for the eu to include clauses in its agreements with third countries referring to the promotion and guarantee of digital freedoms, net neutrality and uncensored and unrestricted access to the internet. the report also stresses the importance of whistleblowers and their supporters and proposes that they be considered as human rights defenders and that the union protect them against international prosecution and extradition proceedings. this controversial report is marked by a strong ideological logic in that it puts net neutrality before national security. i think that a realistic approach should be adopted to strike a balance between security, in the context of the fight against terrorism, and individual freedom, which is clearly not allowed in this report, and i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the use of communication and information technologies has fostered strong human rights mobilisations. the use of social media by young syrians, egyptians and tunisians to call for more democracy during the "arab spring" is a striking example. unfortunately, these technologies are used by oppressive regimes to conduct mass surveillance of populations, or to monitor the activities of some of their citizens via their mobile phones or other electronic devices. it is therefore necessary to regulate its use and provides the eu with a regulatory framework. this includes combating the export of surveillance technology by european companies to authoritarian countries and the mass surveillance by certain european intelligence services. parliament also deplored the fact that security measures were increasingly used as a pretext for infringing the right to privacy and reiterated its strong conviction that national security could not justify untargeted, secret or mass surveillance programmes.
in writing. ‒ mass surveillance established under the pretext of the fight against terrorism is a power-driven policy that i cannot accept. however, the report by mr schaake is wrong in proposing, for example, encryption of communications with individuals who are presented as human rights defenders. this is a difficult concept to define at a time when certain governments and the media are distorting geopolitical and political reality to serve certain interests. the text also seeks to strengthen the primacy of eu law, in particular the interpretation of human rights by the european institutions. in view of the lack of ambition and the errors in this text, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it encourages the use of encryption and censorship-avoiding tools, the dissemination of tools that allow anonymous or pseudonymous use of the internet.
in writing. ‒ ms schaake's report on human rights and technology attempts to solve the problem of squaring the circle, or rather the problem of squaring the net: to keep the internet as a neutral space of freedom and information, to guarantee the protection of the personal data of its users, including by encryption, and at the same time not to prevent the legitimate fight against cybercrime or terrorist activities, not to contribute, through the export of certain technologies, to the strengthening of undemocratic regimes and their control of populations. good intentions, that's what i'm saying. the problem is that the lines of thinking proposed are very intrusive and centralising, giving the commission far too much power in these areas. the rapporteur is also only touching on the problems of mass surveillance of europeans by the services of the very democratic united states. the report also proposes sanctions against companies that export to dictatorships, but only technologies that can strengthen them, while with the blessing of the commission, which negotiates free trade agreements with anyone, one could safely and with a beautiful hypocrisy export everything else. because he asks the right questions but gives the wrong answers, i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is federalist because it gives european standards primacy over national standards. in this case, the report is intended to regulate the conduct of the member states in all matters relating to freedom of information and the use of cryptographic systems or services. this is an area of direct concern to the strategic interests of states; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the european union has no legitimacy to intervene in national legislation and practice, so i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleague marietje schaake on the question of human rights and technologies in third countries. while the report highlights legitimate concerns about the issues of mass surveillance, it highlights a set of unrealistic proposals. the text was adopted in spite of this, which i regret.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because in order to fight terrorism we may have to decode encrypted communications or systems.
in writing. ‒ the schaake (alde) report highlights the role of technological advances and internet access in the development and full respect of human rights and freedom of expression. thus, he advocates encryption of communication with human rights defenders and whistleblowers , however, going beyond the definitions of the latter. the report condemns untargeted, secret or mass surveillance programmes on the grounds of good faith in the fight against terrorism, which is absurd since at the same time the report encourages the use of encryption and censorship-avoidance tools and the dissemination of tools that allow anonymous or pseudonymous use of the internet. once again the report underlines the primacy of eu human rights standards. vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which increasingly supports the primacy of eu human rights standards. this report, which is particularly inconsistent, encourages and condemns encryption and the circumvention of censorship, which are, according to the paragraph, tools for protecting freedom of expression or abuses. it also mentions excluding from eu public procurement those companies that actively cooperate with regimes that do not respect human rights: a totally subjective notion if one considers that "a good part of technologies have a dual use and are therefore potentially harmful to fundamental rights".
in writing. ‒ information and communication technologies are sometimes developed for the purpose of surveillance, particularly in authoritarian regimes but also in the european union. moreover, it is often the companies, not the governments, that own these tools. this report calls for protecting whistleblowers like edward snowden. it called for better monitoring of the regulation and sanctions provided for in eu law on ict and for public exclusion of companies engaged in such activities from eu procurement procedures or funding aid. we have failed to introduce conditionality clauses into the text that would stop an agreement like ttip when the third country is conducting mass surveillance of our citizens. i am voting for the report, however, in order to support the good elements that have been introduced, to stress the need to protect whistleblowers and to open the debate on effective sanctions against these companies.
in writing. ‒ this is a report that gives european standards priority over national standards. in this case, the report is intended to regulate the conduct of the member states in all matters relating to freedom of information and the use of cryptographic systems or services. this is an area of direct concern to the strategic interests of states; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. this report on human rights and technology in third countries aims to encourage the use of encryption and censorship circumvention tools and the dissemination of tools that allow anonymity on the internet. the report wants to put eu standards first and also commits to international protection for whistleblowers, activists and journalists, which can sometimes be useful as was the case with snowden but which must be kept in mind to avoid deviations from such a system. the report will include amendments advocating data encryption in communication or urging the commission to exclude companies cooperating with schemes that do not respect human rights (broad programme) from eu procurement procedures. the commission informs us that the eu charter of fundamental rights has been 'suspended' in greece. should we conclude that the eu is one of the "regimes" that do not respect human rights? i voted against this text.
in writing. new information and communication technologies have made it possible to increase the exchange of information in the world considerably and to develop distance trade. as this report underlines, it is important to ensure the security of the means of communication for the benefit of their users. however, it is important to bear in mind that the internet is now regularly used for criminal purposes, including by terrorists. internet regulation must therefore both promote digital freedoms and ensure citizens' security. certain provisions of the text, aimed at prohibiting restricting the use of encryption within the eu or requiring the systematic implementation of end-to-end encryption standards for all communications services in order to make their content more difficult to access for public authorities, intelligence services and surveillance bodies clearly did not go in this direction and would have made it more difficult for our intelligence services to act. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. this report deals with information and communication technologies (ict) and their use for the purpose of surveillance of the population. it proposes better monitoring of the regulation and sanctions provided for in european ict law, and warns the commission of the dangers of exporting these icts to third countries, especially when the legislation of these countries is insufficient in this area. i voted in favour of this report which, in addition to recalling the need to protect whistleblowers, calls for us to think about effective sanctions against the misuse of these icts.
in writing. ‒ the report, 'human rights and technology in third countries', aims to encourage the use of encryption and censorship circumvention tools and the dissemination of tools for anonymous use of the internet. the report also calls for international protection for whistleblowers, activists and journalists, which can sometimes be useful, as was the case with snowden, but requires great caution to avoid the drift of such a system. the report includes amendments calling for data encryption in communication or an incentive for the commission to exclude international companies in the eu from eu procurement procedures ('companies cooperating with regimes that do not respect human rights'). if, at first sight, this demand seems legitimate, we must not be fooled by the notion of human rights seen through the prism of brussels technocrats and well-meaning people who would gladly classify russia or syria as such "regimes" but certainly not qatar or china... i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the increase in trade between the union and third countries, many european companies are present in the territory of third countries. the report presented and adopted by the european parliament raised the human rights impacts of the use of ict by foreign companies. however, this report tends to promote greater control of the use of these ict and in particular greater surveillance of computer encoding and encryption systems. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the role of technological advances and internet access in the development and full respect of human rights and freedom of expression. he advocates encryption of communication with human rights defenders and whistleblowers . the report condemns untargeted, secret or mass surveillance programmes on the grounds of good faith in the fight against terrorism, which is absurd since it also encourages the use of encryption and censorship-avoidance tools. the rapporteur considers that any mass surveillance is contrary to human rights and calls on the member states to encourage control of intelligence services operations in third countries. the report stresses the primacy of eu human rights standards. international companies on eu territory should therefore be excluded from eu procurement procedures, i.e. companies that sell dual-use technologies that are potentially harmful to fundamental rights and actively cooperate with regimes that do not respect human rights, which remains highly subjective. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the impact of surveillance technologies on human rights in third countries. the report deplores the fact that the right to privacy is being violated in the name of security and the fight against terrorism, calls for an end to mass surveillance and denounces the use of technologies specifically designed to violate certain rights by governments with impunity. parliament therefore called on the commission to submit proposals to determine how european standards can be used to prevent the harmful effects of the export of these technologies to third countries where the rule of law is not applied. some legislative options are being put forward, such as the inclusion of a clause on digital freedom in agreements with third countries or the extension of international protection to whistleblowers. the report has the merit of opening the debate on the need for new european legislation in this area, going so far as to propose increased penalties for companies that sell these products knowing that they are harmful. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which unfortunately is not a legislative report, but which gives priority to the rights of citizens over those of companies.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on the report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union: towards results-oriented controls for the common agricultural policy. the report calls for simplification of the cap and of farmers' administrative procedures. however, under the pretext of combating fraud, it intends to tighten the control of the use of funds by the commission, which already has a very authoritarian and restrictive approach to the use of funds. while there is an urgent need to reduce the administrative and legal burden on farmers, it is not desirable to strengthen the european commission even more in the face of the choices made by the member states. the member states should instead be given more freedom to conduct their agricultural policy as they wish.
in writing. ‒ the report in question calls for simplification of the common agricultural policy (cap) and farmers' administrative procedures, including by rewriting some of the current legislation. it also recommends limiting the number of checks on farms and proposing to stop penalising farmers for unintentional errors. these measures are clearly in the right direction. however, reservations must be made. the report, under the pretext of combating fraud, seeks to strengthen the european commission's powers of control over the use of european funds allocated to farmers, to the detriment of the member states. while there is an urgent need to reduce the administrative and legal burden on farmers, it is not desirable to strengthen the european commission in the face of the choices made by the member states. i have therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ of course, we must relieve our farmers of the heavy administrative and fiscal burdens on their shoulders, but it is not for the european union, which has deprived them of russian markets, to remedy this and i refuse to give the commission any further powers. the national front has always been concerned with protecting the agricultural world, which is essential to our food independence and survival. france will have to abandon the cap in favour of the paf (french agricultural policy) which will allow strategic development to be more evenly distributed between small and large agricultural structures. this 'nationalisation' of the agricultural policy, in the framework of a multiannual programming law implementing a long-term vision of our collective ambitions for french agriculture, will have as its primary objective the stabilisation of prices of agricultural raw materials, which will give farmers medium-term visibility enabling them to take investment decisions. this policy will also aim to promote a sound agriculture, balancing techniques with respect for nature, making the best use of chemical inputs and innovations which have proved to be safe, planning for soil improvement and optimising the management of water resources and requirements.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends simplifying the use of the cap and farmers' administrative procedures. it recommends limiting the number of checks on farms and being more lenient with farmers who make unintentional mistakes. despite these positive aspects, the text provides for a strengthened european commission oversight of the funds. while they should have greater autonomy in the use of european funds such as the eafrd, member states will be forced to co-finance projects imposed by the commission. it is true that it is essential to reduce european bureaucracy and administrative constraints. we are opposed to the strengthening of the commission's powers to the detriment of the member states. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because the report in question calls for simplification of the cap and of the administrative procedures for farmers, and on the other hand, under the pretext of fighting fraud, it proposes to tighten the control of the use of funds by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ to cope with the increasing cost of control activities in the cap budget, this own-initiative report calls on member states to share data on national controls carried out in order to avoid duplication at european level. based on the new role of the certification agency, this report proposes a simplification of the community audit system. it also advocated the introduction of a risk assessment system to identify member states and regions with below average results and to adapt controls accordingly. i would nevertheless like to make a reservation on paragraph 6 of this own-initiative report which calls on the european commission to initiate a process of simplifying the cap by revising the basic acts. i believe that the negotiation of the cap reform has been difficult enough that it is not appropriate to reopen the basic acts, but that the commission should concentrate on the implementing acts. however, since this report is in favour of better implementation of the cap budget and a reduction in the administrative burden between the european and national levels, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. the controls on cap (common agricultural policy) transactions are necessary to ensure that financing is transparent. europe, with the help of the member states, must find better coordination to make checks more efficient and less costly.
in writing. ‒ the fight against fraud in the eu aid and against the misappropriation of eu funds is an essential and indispensable task for the good management of the money provided by the member states but paid by taxpayers. however, it is clear that this report also seeks, and above all, to strengthen the powers of the european commission and to strengthen its tools. the commission's total control of cap funds and its administrative architecture is a drift towards the centralisation of power around the union's institutions which i cannot accept, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it is in favour of strengthening the power of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the report in question calls for simplification of the common agricultural policy (cap) and farmers' administrative procedures, including by rewriting some of the current legislation. it also recommends limiting the number of checks on farms and proposing to stop penalising farmers for unintentional errors. these measures are in the right direction. however, reservations must be made; the report, under the pretext of combating fraud, seeks to strengthen the european commission's powers of control over the use of european funds allocated to farmers, to the detriment of the member states. while there is an urgent need to lighten the administrative and legal burden on farmers, it is not desirable to further strengthen the european commission in the face of the choices made by the member states. i have therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the protection of the european union's financial interests in connection with the common agricultural policy. for the cap, as for cohesion policy, i believe that the right balance should be struck between reducing administrative burdens and effective controls, which requires a simplification of the system. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes to reduce the administrative burden for our farmers in exchange for better financial control.
in writing. ‒ this report on the protection of the european union's financial interests calls for simplification of the cap and farmers' administrative procedures, including by stopping the penalisation of farmers for unintentional errors. the report, however, seeks to tighten the controls on the use of funds, under the guise of fighting tax fraud. similarly, the management of eafrd funds is largely locked up by the commission, as are the projects imposed by the commission through the rural development plans. as much as i would like to reduce the administrative and legal burden on farmers, i do not think the commission is in the best position to do so. so i refrained.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. it certainly has the merit of lightening the administrative and legal burden of the cap on farmers. but it has the disadvantage of further strengthening the powers of the brussels commission in the field of agriculture. but it is the policy of this commission which is killing french agriculture.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. this report makes some very good points: it advocates simplification of the cap and the easing of administrative procedures, both ideas which we fully support. on the other hand, and this is why we are not in favour of this text, it also suggests tightening the framework for the use of funds by the commission, a framework which is already very demanding and damaging to the member states.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to simplify the cap and the controls put in place by the eu. the aim is to reduce the number of errors and thus the costs of these checks (€4 billion out of €58 billion for the agricultural budget). the text recalls that 'the arrangements for the expenditure of the common agricultural policy remain complex'. simplification must not lead to the dismantling of existing instruments the text proposes 'an increase in the quality and content of inspections'. and it helps to distinguish between negligence and fraud. i abstain on this text, stressing that it does not address the main problems posed by the cap in its implementation, namely the lack of support for small farmers and organic farming.
in writing. ‒ the report in question calls for simplification of the common agricultural policy (cap) and farmers' administrative procedures, including by rewriting some of the current legislation. it also recommends limiting the number of checks on farms and proposing to stop penalising farmers for unintentional errors. these measures are in the right direction. however, reservations must be made. the report, under the pretext of combating fraud, seeks to strengthen the european commission's powers of control over the use of european funds allocated to farmers, to the detriment of the member states. while there is an urgent need to lighten the administrative and legal burden on farmers, it is not desirable to further strengthen the european commission in the face of the choices made by the member states. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report, under the pretext of combating fraud, strengthens the commission's control of the use of funds, which already strictly regulates their use (e.g. by counting hectares, monitoring aid to producer organisations or the application of the nitrate directive). similarly, the management of eafrd funds is largely locked up by the european commission, whereas it should be the sole responsibility of the member states, which are obliged to co-finance the projects imposed by the commission through the rural development plans. the member states should instead be given more freedom to conduct their agricultural policy as they wish. this report increases the administrative burden on farmers while strengthening the commission vis-à-vis the member states. so it's better to abstain.
in writing. this report on the protection of the european union's financial interests calls for simplification of the cap and farmers' administrative procedures, including by stopping the penalisation of farmers in the event of unintentional error. the report, however, seeks to tighten the controls on the use of funds, under the guise of fighting tax fraud. similarly, the management of eafrd funds is largely locked up by the commission, as are the projects imposed by the commission through the rural development plans. as much as i would like to reduce the administrative and legal burden on farmers, i do not think the commission is in the best position to do so. so i refrained.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on results-based controls for the common agricultural policy. the text calls for a simplified system and a better chain of checks, and aims to protect the financial interests of the european union by striking the right balance between reducing the administrative burden and ensuring effective financial control.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which rightly proposes a clarification and simplification of many measures relating to the implementation and control of the common agricultural policy (cap). these measures are aimed in particular at a more qualitative rather than quantitative application of the administrative procedures derived from the cap, and at improving the controls carried out by the institutions in order to combat fraud and abuse.
in writing. ‒ this report on the protection of the european union's financial interests calls for simplification of the cap and farmers' administrative procedures, but also recommends that farmers should no longer be penalised for unintentional errors. the report, by contrast, seeks to strengthen the control of the commission's use of funds by deciding to fight fraud. similarly, the management of eafrd funds is largely locked up by the commission, as are the projects imposed by the commission through the rural development plans. although i wish to reduce the administrative and legal burden on farmers, i do not think it is necessary to give the commission more powers vis-à-vis the member states, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the common agricultural policy (cap) is one of the historical and economic pillars of the union. it is a very broad policy, covering a wide range of activities and including a complex system of aid. it is important to monitor the policy and the results of the policy in a targeted manner so that the extent of its impact can be measured. the european parliament adopted a text on the protection of the union's financial interests and calling for stronger controls on the results of the cap. i voted in favour of this report and i stress the need to strike a balance between reducing the administrative burden and ensuring effective financial control. the control system must be simplified without losing efficiency.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for simplification of the cap and farmers' administrative procedures, including by rewriting some of the current legislation. it also recommends limiting the number of controls on farms by grouping them together. it also proposes to stop penalizing farmers for unintentional errors, as is the case today. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. similarly, the management of eafrd funds is largely locked up by the european commission, whereas it should be the sole responsibility of the member states. the commission has also proposed that the member states be required to co-finance, from their own resources, the projects imposed by the commission through the rural development plans. the member states should instead be given more freedom to conduct their agricultural policy as they wish. while there is an urgent need to reduce the administrative and legal burden on farmers, it is not desirable to further strengthen the european commission in the face of the choices made by the member states. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on family businesses in europe because it is very favourable to this type of business and its long-term development. the report points out that 85% of european enterprises are family businesses, which account for 60% of private sector employment. several measures are suggested to promote family businesses and their transmission, such as simplifying administrative procedures, promoting training activities to develop entrepreneurship and combating labour shortages and youth unemployment. i voted in favour of this report because it also recalls that legislation on direct taxation or inheritance is a matter for the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report is positive in many ways. it is very favourable to family businesses, their long-term development and, above all, their transmission... while recalling that 'legislation on direct taxation and inheritance is a matter for the member states'. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ despite its imperfections and some regrettable concessions to fashionable ideologies, mrs niebler's report is very favourable to family businesses, their long-term development and, above all, their transmission. i therefore did not hesitate to support it, especially since the rapporteur recalls that 'legislation on direct taxation and inheritance is a matter for the member states': it is more a question of exchanges of good practice, with a number of recommendations without constraints for the member states.
in writing. this report, entitled family businesses in europe , recalls that 85% of european businesses are family businesses, accounting for 60% of private sector employment. these companies are vital to the european economy because they are deeply rooted in their place of establishment and are factors in preserving jobs in rural areas and devastated regions, thus contributing to the fight against the ageing of the population and depopulation of certain regions. member states are therefore encouraged to encourage the establishment of specific infrastructures and to ensure the viability of enterprises, in particular start-ups. family businesses are by nature flexible and are excellent at spotting new opportunities and innovations. the report notes that these firms have been underfunded since the crisis, and encourages the member states to take specific measures, such as administrative and fiscal simplification, improving the legal framework for the transfer of these firms, or promoting training activities. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this text defends family businesses, which account for 60% of companies and half of jobs in the european union. the report recognises that these companies have historically contributed to the economic growth of the member states and are sources of innovation and job creation. they thus help to combat youth unemployment and support employment in disadvantaged regions. for all these reasons, it is intended to encourage their financing and thus to ensure that regulation, particularly of financial markets, does not lead to unnecessary constraints. the text also encourages member states to simplify administrative procedures and tax systems and to improve the legal framework governing the transfer. finally, it is appropriate to promote entrepreneurship, at best, in educational circles. as a defender of smes and family businesses, we can only welcome this type of proposal, especially since the rapporteur has repeatedly stated that taxation is a matter for the member states. the text therefore does not represent a particular threat to the sovereignty of states. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve the situation of family businesses in europe. family businesses are at the heart of the european entrepreneurial culture, accounting for 60% of businesses and 50% of jobs in europe. i voted in favour of this report, which tackles the difficulties faced by family businesses in accessing finance and passing on the business to the next generation, as we know that the majority of them take a long-term view and contribute to the growth and stability of our economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on family businesses in europe, which are an essential part of the european economy. it is necessary to ensure that any family business can have access to the necessary financing, but also to alleviate any excessive bureaucratic constraints that may harm these job-creating businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because family businesses are the most important source of private sector employment in europe. they represent more than 60% of the eu's enterprises and thus contribute to the continuity, renewal and growth of the european economy. family businesses are traditionally more long-term oriented and thus have sustainable and sound management processes. many family businesses no longer fit the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises but are far from large enterprises. they cannot therefore benefit from certain aid schemes or be exempted from certain obligations. this creates unnecessary constraints, which this report seeks to remove.
in writing. ‒ this report develops relevant observations on family businesses. it was very much in favour of the long-term development of these and, above all, their transmission, while recalling that 'legislation on direct taxation and inheritance is a matter for the member states'. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the niebler report on family businesses, which points out that 60% of businesses in europe are family businesses and that these businesses, which generate many local jobs, often have difficulties in accessing finance or in securing its transmission. the report thus underlines the urgency for the public authorities to focus more on this category of enterprises, an initiative which i fully share.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which aims to harmonise the definition of family businesses at european level in order to deal more effectively with their specific problems. this is all the more so as they represent 60% of enterprises in europe and are therefore an important source of employment.
in writing. ‒ this report family businesses in europe recalls that 85% of european businesses are family businesses, accounting for 60% of private sector employment. these enterprises are firmly rooted in their place of establishment and are factors in preserving jobs in rural and devastated areas, thus contributing to the fight against the ageing of the population and depopulation of certain regions. member states are encouraged to encourage the establishment of specific infrastructures and to ensure the viability of enterprises, in particular start-ups. the report encourages states to provide for specific measures, such as administrative and tax simplification, improvement of the legal framework for the transfer of these companies, promotion of training activities. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it favours the succession of family businesses and pays tribute to their role in the economic performance of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that, like smes, family businesses contribute to growth and job creation in europe. it seeks to develop a definition of this type of enterprise. however, they cover very different situations: agricultural enterprises, medium-sized enterprises, transnational enterprises and even large multinational enterprises. the ultimate aim is european legislation for family businesses to remove unnecessary constraints. the first constraint facing a small business, family-owned or not, is its empty order book, a direct consequence of the austerity policies on household consumption, while multinationals are saved by exports. the harmonization of legislation that mixes the needs of family empires and small family businesses will not be to the benefit of the latter. the german csu rapporteur confuses aid to family smes with aid to family multinationals on the grounds that family management of a company would ipso facto introduce the values of integrity and social responsibility. the mere fact of wanting to create a specific category for family businesses (including smes) is economic nonsense. i vote against it.
in writing. this report, entitled family businesses in europe , recalls that 85% of european businesses are family businesses, accounting for 60% of private sector employment. these enterprises are firmly rooted in their place of establishment and are factors in preserving jobs in rural and devastated areas, thus contributing to the fight against the ageing of the population and depopulation of certain regions. member states are encouraged to encourage the establishment of specific infrastructures and to ensure the viability of enterprises, in particular start-ups. family businesses are by nature flexible and are excellent at spotting new perspectives and innovations. the report also calls on the member states to take specific measures, such as administrative and fiscal simplification, improving the legal framework for the transfer of these companies, promoting training activities, etc. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. the report notes that 60% of businesses in europe are family-owned. these companies often have difficulty in accessing or transmitting financing. i voted in favour of this text which calls on the commission to consider a definition of these enterprises at european level, with a view to addressing their specific difficulties. the aim is to promote the sustainability of these businesses and to preserve local jobs in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mrs niebler's report on family businesses in europe. 60% of businesses in europe are family-owned. these enterprises generate many local jobs and often have difficulty in accessing or transferring financing. i support this report which calls on the commission to consider a definition of these enterprises at european level to address their specific difficulties. we call on the member states to create the appropriate conditions to promote their sustainability.
in writing. ‒ this report is generally very favourable to family businesses and is particularly concerned with the issue of transmission. it also stressed, for the first time, the respect of the principle of subsidiarity in one of its recitals. i believe that the economic fabric of small and family businesses is of the utmost importance for the recovery of activity and employment in european countries. similarly, these human-sized enterprises are best placed to develop local development models in short circuits. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ family businesses now represent more than 60% of all businesses and account for 50% of private sector employment in the union. however, these companies often face many obstacles when it comes to changing direction and finding a buyer. the various national laws (taxes, inheritance duties) represent a serious obstacle to the growth of these businesses. the european parliament adopted an own-initiative report calling on the european commission to adopt an integrated policy for family businesses in the union. i voted in favour of this text and i support the importance of such an approach. family businesses are an important part of the local and regional economy and jobs, and it is our duty to promote their interests.
in writing. ‒ family businesses now account for 60% of european businesses and no less than 50% of jobs. the vast majority of these are small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for two thirds of private sector employees. these structures, which are the cornerstones of the economic fabric, have suffered in recent years from the effects of the world economic crisis but also from the fiscal inconsistencies introduced by some member states. that is why i voted in favour of the report 'family businesses in europe' which aims to provide a favourable institutional, legal and fiscal framework for such businesses. the text, which is supported by the european parliament, aims to simplify administrative procedures and to provide theoretical knowledge to business leaders, in order to promote the internationalisation of their activities, which is a real source of growth and job creation. the inheritance rights of these companies must also be simplified and adapted in order to avoid liquidity problems when the assets are transferred.
in writing. ‒ family businesses in europe represent more than 60% of enterprises and almost 50% of private sector jobs. despite a long-term view of growth prospects, these companies often face difficulties in accessing finance or in passing on the business to subsequent generations. i voted in favour of this report which asks the european commission to examine ways of collecting comparable data, to address specific difficulties and to introduce the test for family businesses in the impact assessment. finally, it is important that member states put in place appropriate conditions for the succession of family businesses.
in writing. ‒ the report is favourable to family businesses, their long-term development and, above all, their transmission. the report also recalls that 'legislation on direct taxation and inheritance is a matter for the member states'. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted today a report on the role of family businesses in the european union. these companies account for 85% of european enterprises and 60% of private sector employment in europe. they therefore have a key role to play, in particular in addressing the effects of the financial and economic crisis and in revitalising the economy. the vast majority of these enterprises are small and mediumsized enterprises, which are suffering more than ever from international competition and the lack of financing available to them. so now more than ever is the time to support them. despite their importance, the characteristics and needs of these enterprises are still poorly understood at european level, given the different realities. since 2009, a rather vague definition has been in place, which has the effect that member states continue to apply rules on aid to these companies, which vary considerably from one member state to another. this report outlines a number of recommendations for the harmonization of these practices. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ by putting states at the centre of the issue and by giving the eu only a role as a funder of research projects and a facilitator of interstate cooperation, this report presents many interesting lines on the development of the marine economy, which is a key sector for france. however, it lacks a focus on economic and environmental cooperation in the mediterranean and black sea basins. optimizing shipping by a border carbon tax is one area which the report should have considered in its analysis of the shipping sector. an amendment to this effect was tabled in committee by the enl members, and was rejected by 26 votes to 25. our delegation abstained on this report because our recommendations were not taken into account.
in writing. ‒ among the eu member states, france has the largest maritime area. we are therefore very concerned about this report which looks at the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy for job creation and growth. several sectors of the maritime economy are covered, ranging from fisheries to shipping, shipbuilding and marine research. the proposals on energy seem to be relevant. the commission's intervention is clearly limited to a cooperative role, which is obviously very positive. however, we regret that this report does not highlight the importance of the private sector in the maritime sector. another negative point is the promotion of free access to all data concerning the maritime areas of the various member states. the confidentiality of information must be preserved when the economic interest of our country is at stake. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ despite some good suggestions on the decisive role of public investment and the need to revive shipbuilding, this report recommends that the powers of a commission whose dictatorship we are already suffering from be further extended.
in writing. ‒ the main positive aspect of this report on the job and growth potential of research and innovation in the blue economy is that it is comprehensive and covers a wide range of issues (fisheries, transport, energy, shipbuilding, etc.). it takes into account all aspects of each issue such as the added value of public action, the management of fish stocks, the preservation of the marine ecosystem, the need for support for the shipbuilding sector. finally, the report stresses the central role of the states in the development of the blue economy (point 9), with the commission intervening only to promote their cooperation. the report, however, points to an ideological bias which leads the author to overlook certain contributions of the private sector to the economy. similarly, there is a need to protect data which is essential for the defence of the fundamental economic interests of states, so the emphasis is on free access to all data and knowledge. finally, the report ignores the long-term and sustainable development of the tourism industry. although this report has some shortcomings, it also presents some interesting points, and i have therefore decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the blue economy represents a significant potential for growth, jobs and investment for eu member states with disappointing macroeconomic performance. the report highlights the issues and issues to be addressed: fisheries, shipbuilding, mineral extraction and maritime transport. the report gives the state a key role in the development of these activities and the union a coordinating role. the text stresses the importance of taking advantage of these sectors while ensuring the preservation of the environment. however, it is regrettable that the text does not include the role that private investors have to play in financing these projects, particularly with a view to a better allocation of resources. the rapporteur also deals with this problem without addressing the question of the union for the mediterranean, which is a crucial issue for the future of the continent. i therefore decided not to vote on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted for joão ferreira's report on the potential of the blue economy. i have contributed a great deal to the preparation of this report in committee, through amendments tabled jointly with my colleagues from the intergroup on seas, rivers, islands and coastal areas. the report proposes a roadmap for the development of sea-related growth, particularly in sectors such as marine energy, shipping, the exploitation of underwater mineral resources and fisheries. these are sectors of the future in which the union, the member states, regional and local authorities and the private sector must invest. synergies between marine research and industrial applications should also be developed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the blue growth strategy, which is a long-term strategy, aims to support sustainable growth in the marine and maritime sectors as a whole. the report recognises that seas and oceans are engines of the european economy, offering considerable potential for innovation and growth. this report is a response to the europe 2020 strategy for smart and sustainable growth. i think this is a very important contribution of the maritime policy, which represents real added value for the future.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because although this report presents many interesting aspects of the development of the marine economy, such as the emphasis on the need for research and training to fully exploit the potential of the blue economy. however, this report is too focused on purely european issues in an area which is a matter for the regional level. the report lacks several points raised by the enl group, such as the state of economic and environmental cooperation in the mediterranean basin and the optimisation of maritime transport by means of a carbon tax levied at the border.
in writing. ‒ this report presents a series of proposals to realise the job and growth potential of our seas and oceans, echoing the commission's communication on innovation in the blue economy. the rapporteur calls, inter alia, for concrete objectives and deadlines to be set to improve the accessibility of marine data. i voted in favour of this report in support of these objectives.
the blue economy is a growing sector within the european union. creating new jobs while respecting our oceans and the environment is a challenge that europe can win. that is why i voted in favour of this text. all economic activities that generate jobs, such as fishing, transport and tourism, must be supported by the european union.
in writing. ‒ we must be leaders in blue growth in europe by promoting a new programme for research and employment in the maritime sector (seaproducts, shipbuilding, shipping, tourism, energy, rare metals). europe is the world's leading maritime domain. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide a framework for the development of the marine environment, including the management of marine resources.
in writing. ‒ the economy of the maritime sector and the exploitation of the sea's resources is a field requiring long-term investment, a need that the public sector can partially meet. the report by our colleague mr ferreira rightly emphasises this and highlights the future prospects for the blue economy. however, these proposals are only articulated within a strictly european and supranational framework, whereas it is clear that the member states have an important role to play in the context of both regional and local policy and international policy involving third countries. as a supporter of subsidiarity and national economic policies, i regret this lack of flexibility, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it does not mention any desirable cooperation on the mediterranean and the black sea.
in writing. ‒ as france is the eu country with the largest maritime area, we are very concerned by this report on the potential for job creation and growth of research and innovation in the blue economy. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. the proposals on energy seem to be relevant. moreover, the commission's intervention is clearly limited to a cooperative role. however, we criticise the ideological and purely economic approach of this report which fails to stress the importance of the private sector in this area. we are also against the free access to all data concerning the maritime areas of the various member states. on the contrary, the confidentiality of information must be preserved in the economic interest of the countries. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ferreira report on the potential for job creation and growth of research and innovation in the blue economy. the measures proposed in this report are to promote innovation and job creation in all sectors related to the seas and oceans (from fisheries to shipbuilding and the exploitation of mineral and energy resources). scientists point out that many of the major challenges facing our societies today could be solved by better understanding of the marine environment. i welcome the adoption of this report and the ways forward, particularly in the area of improving education, training and research.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is simple: to encourage innovation in all that concerns the oceans, the seas and the blue economy in general. this includes fishing, aquaculture and everything related to tourism, cruises and pleasure boating. it's a move in the right direction. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this ferreira report on the job and growth potential of research and innovation in the blue economy covers a wide range of eu competences (fisheries, transport, energy, shipbuilding, etc.). it takes into account all aspects of each issue such as the added value of public action, the management of fish stocks, the preservation of the marine ecosystem, the need for support for the shipbuilding sector. the report stresses the central role of the states in the development of the blue economy, with the commission intervening only to promote their cooperation. the report, however, reveals an ideological orientation which leads the rapporteur to overlook certain contributions of the private sector to the economy. finally, the report ignores the long-term and sustainable development of the tourism industry. i have decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report on the development of the marine economy. the text presents interesting lines by placing the states at the centre of the issue and giving the eu only a financing role. this text, which neglects the need for the private sector to contribute, is too focused on intra-european issues. it is not thinking of partnerships with the mediterranean countries to solve economic and environmental problems. in addition, the text does not address the issues of sustainable development and the tourism industry, which are essential for the blue economy.
in writing. ‒ finally, the report highlights the tremendous potential of the sea. and for once the concept of the blue economy is not presented to us as a new mode of capitalist development. this is about protecting, restoring and conserving ecosystems, biodiversity, resilience and productivity of the seas and oceans . the report stresses the importance of developing innovative sources of clean energy, called 'blue' energy, such as tidal energy, wave energy or osmotic energy, and calls for the results of publicly funded research to be in the public domain for non-commercial uses (by preserving data which are of strategic importance to the member states). the text deplores the clear deterioration of some more traditional sectors of the economy (such as fishing or shipbuilding and repair) and urges the commission to defend the rights of workers at sea and to guarantee safe working conditions. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ as france is the eu country with the largest maritime area, we are very concerned by this report on the potential for job creation and growth of research and innovation in the blue economy. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. the proposals on energy seem to be relevant. moreover, the commission's intervention is clearly limited to a cooperative role. however, we criticise the ideological and purely economic approach of this report which fails to stress the importance of the private sector in this area. we are also against the free access to all data concerning the maritime areas of the various member states. on the contrary, the confidentiality of information must be preserved in the economic interest of the countries. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ although this report has some shortcomings, it presents many interesting aspects of the development of the marine economy, a sector that is of vital importance to france, by placing the states at the centre of the issue and by giving the eu only a role as a funder of research projects and a facilitator of interstate cooperation. the report is right to emphasise the need for research and training to fully exploit the potential of the blue economy. however, it is a little too focused on european-european issues, in a field that is fundamentally regional and international. the report does not really mention the state of economic and environmental cooperation in the mediterranean and black sea basins.
in writing. this ferreira report on the job and growth potential of research and innovation in the blue economy covers a wide range of eu competences (fisheries, transport, energy, shipbuilding, etc.). it takes into account all aspects of each issue such as the added value of public action, the management of fish stocks, the preservation of the marine ecosystem, the need for support for the shipbuilding sector. finally, the report stresses the central role of the states in the development of the blue economy, with the commission intervening only to promote their cooperation. the report, however, reveals an ideological orientation which leads the rapporteur to overlook certain contributions of the private sector to the economy. finally, the report ignores the long-term and sustainable development of the tourism industry. although not without flaws, this report also contains some interesting points. i therefore decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which encourages member states to promote innovation in all sectors related to the sea and oceans: fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism, pleasure boating, cruises, shipbuilding and repair, maritime and coastal defence works, exploration and exploitation of mineral and energy resources at sea and biotechnology. as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy, i support these measures, which will create new jobs and generate growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the measures proposed by mr ferreira on exploiting the job and growth potential of research and innovation in the blue economy. they are to promote innovation to create new jobs and generate growth in all sectors related to the sea and oceans: fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and river transport, ports and logistics, tourism, leisure, cruises, shipbuilding and repair, maritime and coastal defence works, exploration and exploitation of mineral and energy resources at sea and biotechnology.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to deepen its investment in the blue economy under the horizon 2020 project. i welcome the fact that this report takes an environmentally friendly, progressive and innovative approach by proposing a sustainable use of the potential of the seas and oceans. as the blue economy is a promising sector for the future, there is a need to strengthen measures to encourage research and innovation in this sector. i also regret the cuts in research and development and support the report's call for a consolidated public database of marine research.
in writing. ‒ this report on the job and growth potential of research and innovation in the blue economy covers a wide range of eu competences (fisheries, transport, energy, shipbuilding, etc.). it takes into account all aspects of each issue such as the added value of public action, the management of fish stocks, the preservation of the marine ecosystem, the need for support for the shipbuilding sector. finally, the report stresses the central role of the states in the development of the blue economy, with the commission intervening only to promote their cooperation. the report, however, reveals an ideological orientation which leads the rapporteur to overlook certain contributions of the private sector to the economy. finally, the report ignores the long-term and sustainable development of the tourism industry. although not without flaws, this report also contains some interesting points. i therefore decided to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the blue economy, in the marine and maritime sectors, now represents nearly 5.4 million jobs in the union. in order to boost the growth potential of this economy, the union has put in place a strategy called 'blue growth' which aims to promote sustainable growth in the marine and maritime sectors. the european parliament adopted a report to relaunch the eu strategy and to highlight the strategic importance of the blue economy in terms of job creation and innovation. i voted in favour of this report. the blue economy is a key topic for me, particularly as it represents many opportunities in my constituency.
in writing. ‒ with a maritime front stretching from the mediterranean to the north sea, the european union has a huge potential for growth and jobs that is still under-exploited. yet the so-called blue economy (economic activities linked to the seas and oceans such as fishing, renewable ocean energy or ports and shipping) still only accounts for 3 to 5% of european gdp. that is why i voted for this report to give more money to vocational training and research in the blue economy. it also encourages the development of ecoresponsible and sustainable fisheries and aquaculture practices with the support of the member states. we also asked the european commission to support the mobility of researchers and to take account of the role of local artisanal gastronomy and culture in the development of european coastal tourism.
in writing. ‒ although this report has some shortcomings, it presents many interesting aspects of the development of the marine economy, a sector that is of vital importance to france, by placing the states at the centre of the issue and by giving the eu only a role as a funder of research projects and a facilitator of interstate cooperation. the report is right to emphasise the need for research and training to fully exploit the potential of the blue economy. however, it is a little too focused on european-european issues, in a field that is fundamentally regional and international. the report does not really mention the state of economic and environmental cooperation in the mediterranean and black sea basins. optimizing shipping by a border carbon tax is one area which the report should have considered in its analysis of the shipping sector. an amendment to this effect was tabled in committee by the rbm members and was rejected by 26 votes to 25. i therefore chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my gue/ngl colleague, joão ferreira, on the 'blue economy', i.e. the marine economy. maritime space is a fast-developing sector with a high potential for job creation. there is no shortage of challenges to developing a sustainable common policy in this area. ensuring the fundamental balance between economic, social and environmental interests in relation to the potential of this area is fundamental. the report highlights the need for public investment in marine research and innovation to promote sustainable development in the sector. this sustainable development must be achieved first and foremost by supporting small-scale fishing, in particular by regulating illegal fishing and the industrial exploitation of fishery resources, as this report advocates. i also welcome the fact that the concept of 'blue energy' is a leitmotif of this report, and that it puts wind and ocean-current energy and the promotion of organic aquaculture at the centre of its concerns. it remains to be seen what will happen to all these recommendations in other eu bodies.
in writing. ‒ the interventionism of the european union in the policies of the member states is a real problem that i am fighting with my colleagues from the national front. nevertheless, we are sensitive to actions that promote the entrepreneurial spirit among young people, in particular through education and information. the report aims to reward entrepreneurial behaviour and to promote the creation of enterprises in the educational pathway, through tools such as erasmus+. the report is therefore, on the whole, positive and in line with our programme. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this draft report proposes to reward entrepreneurial behaviour and to value the creation of enterprises in the educational pathway. it focuses on capacity building, including within the erasmus+ pathway. i therefore voted in favour, but i remain vigilant about the temptation of the commission to want to take over the educational programmes of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this draft report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training aims to reward entrepreneurial behaviour and to value the creation of enterprises in the educational pathway. it focuses on capacity building, including within the erasmus+ pathway. it also called on the commission to include entrepreneurship education and training in more eu schemes. as in the cult committee, where i had tabled several (rejected) amendments, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this text is primarily a recommendation to the states, since education is their exclusive competence. with youth unemployment in the union at over 22% and investment slowing down, there is a need to promote initiative, risk-taking, entrepreneurship and creativity. the report therefore encourages states to implement programmes and activities throughout school life that promote entrepreneurship. we believe that entrepreneurship is essential to foster investment, innovation and job creation. the mass unemployment we know will not be stopped by these initiatives alone but entrepreneurship is closely linked to the emergence of new start-ups that have an increased capacity to find alternatives to traditional funding circuits. this is why it is essential to provide entrepreneurship courses and to set up business incubators, especially in business and engineering schools, especially when we know that the majority of graduates work for large groups. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which contributes to a better access of young european citizens to the labour market. the report calls for the transmission of entrepreneurial skills, the development of a spirit of initiative and a sense of social responsibility at all levels and types of education. by suggesting that media and digital skills be taken into account in education and training, this report promotes the adaptation of the skills of young european citizens to current and future labour market needs. finally, by encouraging continuing vocational training for teachers in the field of entrepreneurship and promoting relations between schools and businesses, this report offers a pragmatic approach that could boost the professional integration of young europeans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to reward entrepreneurial behaviour and to promote the creation of enterprises in the educational pathway, with an emphasis on the development of entrepreneurial capacities.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on promoting entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial skills among young people at all stages of their school/university and training pathways. the rapporteur proposes a series of measures to be implemented at national and european level, such as the development of a sense of initiative and responsibility; the introduction of new learning techniques through theoretical and practical modules; the development of digital and media skills; the fight against poverty and the promotion of inclusion through social entrepreneurship; the improvement and lifelong development of teacher qualifications; the launch of training and start-up programmes by member states. at a time when unemployment among young people under 25 is over 22% in europe, i believe that there is an urgent need to provide young people with practical skills to meet the demands of the labour market and to develop their entrepreneurial spirit. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. growth and jobs are the juncker commission's watchwords. support for youth employment and any good practice aimed at reducing unemployment in the various european economic sectors is essential. support for social enterprise projects that work in collaboration with local communities is particularly interesting to me.
in writing. ‒ having long been a leader in my home region in promoting youth employment and vocational training policies, i support the report's view on promoting entrepreneurship among the younger generation. in my experience, it is important to be able to rely on their creative potential and their enthusiasm to move forward. better not to discourage them. youth entrepreneurship is a solution for their integration, to combat mass unemployment and the risk of dropping out of school which threatens an entire generation. it is also a driver of dynamism, economic growth and innovation, particularly in emerging sectors such as new technologies and creative industries. however, this is not about sending young people into the wall and the spirit of enterprise that i would like to see further developed needs to be reasoned and documented. it must be part of a project-based approach to teaching in which risk-taking is carefully considered.
in writing. ‒ given the economic stagnation experienced by the member states of the union, and in particular those of the euro area, for many years, the promotion of entrepreneurship is a measure, albeit a minimal one, but essential to economic recovery. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which is in favour of defending freedom of enterprise and empowering young people. the best tools for young people to succeed are learning and effort at work, notions that are often dismissed today
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it encourages the entrepreneurial spirit and initiative of young europeans.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which proposes a more ambitious approach to youth entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship awareness. the high rate of youth unemployment is a matter of concern, with an average of 22% in the union and in some countries such as greece and spain, exceeding 50%. this report therefore advocates entrepreneurship training at all levels, which can be a very effective instrument to motivate young people and encourage them to start their own businesses and succeed on their own. i also support the creation of a european network to share examples of good practice between member states.
in writing. ‒ while we must be vigilant about the eu's interventionism in state policies, we are in favour of promoting entrepreneurship among young people, particularly through education and information. we do not lose sight, however, of the fact that the purpose of education is to train men, not to condition economic agents. as such, the humanities and culture must remain a priority. overall, this report is a step in the right direction and aims to reward entrepreneurial behaviour and to promote entrepreneurship in the educational pathway, including through the erasmus+ programme. these proposals are in line with our programme. the member voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague michaela sojdrova on promoting entrepreneurship among young people. the report aims to encourage the acquisition of skills that enable young people to enter the business world or to set up their own. in addition to the learning of these skills, the link between schools and the business world should be strengthened. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ while in some eu countries the youth unemployment rate is close to 50%, it is important to support all actions in favour of education and training. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training aims to promote entrepreneurial behaviour and to value entrepreneurship in the educational pathway. it focuses on the development of entrepreneurial capacities, including within the erasmus+ pathway. it called on the commission to include entrepreneurship education in more eu schemes. i voted in favour of this report, considering that entrepreneurship is not very much present in the education and training of future workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it seeks to promote entrepreneurship among young people, which is a very respectable objective. it also paid tribute to the erasmus programme, which is one of the european union's few good achievements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to promote entrepreneurship among young people. it proposes to promote entrepreneurial behaviour among young people from school onwards and to focus on developing entrepreneurial skills during training.
in writing. ‒ rather than tackling the causes of youth unemployment, the rapporteur proposes a leap forward towards entrepreneurship, the panacea that is supposed to save them. the very subject of the report raises an underlying ideological problem. schools should teach 'entrepreneurship' in a 'positive' way and universities should work with enterprises to 'meet the needs of the labour market'. unsurprisingly, the text 'invites member states to encourage the participation of private partners in entrepreneurship education' and calls for the juncker fund to be used to develop partnerships between schools and businesses. all this is accompanied, of course, by broad moral considerations on the benefits of self-employment, "budgetary consolidation in the member states", less "unnecessary" burdens for young enterprises and the reform of education systems. i vote against this ridiculous liberal catechism !
in writing. ‒ while we must be vigilant about the eu's interventionism in state policies, we are in favour of promoting entrepreneurship among young people, particularly through education and information. overall, this report is a step in the right direction and aims to reward entrepreneurial behaviour and to promote entrepreneurship in the educational pathway, including through the erasmus+ programme. these proposals are in line with our programme. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ at a time when wage labour in large groups is seen as the most favourable social situation, we support all initiatives that highlight the entrepreneurial spirit, the real engine of the economy. as this report emphasises the development of entrepreneurial skills in educational programmes, we naturally support this initiative.
in writing. this report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training aims to promote entrepreneurial behaviour and to value entrepreneurship in the educational pathway. it focuses on capacity building, including within the erasmus+ pathway. it also calls on the commission to include entrepreneurship education in more eu schemes. i voted in favour of this report, considering that the spirit of enterprise is rather lacking in the education and training of future workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training. as a former minister for vocational training, i support this report which recalls that entrepreneurship encourages young people to develop the qualities that will enable them to be more successful in their professional and personal lives.
in writing. ‒ this report on promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training aims to promote entrepreneurial behaviour and to value entrepreneurship in the educational pathway. it focuses on capacity building, including within the erasmus+ pathway. it also calls on the commission to include entrepreneurship education in more eu schemes. i voted in favour of this report, considering that the spirit of enterprise is rather lacking in the education and training of future workers.
in writing. ‒ today, more than 7 million young europeans aged 15-24 are unemployed and not in education or training. the union must mobilize to put an end to this phenomenon and encourage the member states to take targeted action. this report presents a number of principles and actions aimed at promoting entrepreneurship among young people through education and training. i am glad that i voted in favour of this text, which aims to bring young people closer to the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution. in the face of unemployment among young people under 25 years of age of 22.2% in the union, emphasising entrepreneurial skills of young people, including social entrepreneurship, through training during their schooling but also throughout their lives, will bring benefits in terms of economic growth and job creation, but also individual, societal and institutional benefits. we need to take an ambitious approach to developing entrepreneurship among young people and this approach will need to involve all levels of action: public, european, national and local. youth entrepreneurship is a promising future for our economies and the european union, within its powers, must accompany the member states in this area. this will be achieved in particular through the appropriate use of the european structural and investment funds. developing entrepreneurship among young men and women from all socioeconomic backgrounds is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. our young people are full of ideas. we must now ensure that we give them the best opportunities to make them a reality.
in writing. ‒ this draft report has several objectives. first, the preservation of europe's tangible cultural heritage (sites, buildings, etc.) and also intangible heritage (oral traditions, customs, etc.) should be at the centre of the game. this draft report therefore examines the issues of financing, legal bases and digitisation of this heritage. i vote in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ france has a rich national heritage which must be preserved at all costs. the resolution, which was put to the vote by parliament, aims to strengthen the preservation of europe's cultural heritage, whether tangible (movable, immovable and underwater) or intangible (oral traditions, performing arts, rituals, etc.). while it speaks of an integrated european approach, it stresses that cultural heritage is naturally heterogeneous, reflecting the diversity and cultural and linguistic pluralism of the member states. the resolution examines the issues of funding, legal bases and digitisation of heritage, highlighting its importance and links with regional development, social cohesion, agriculture, the environment, education, tourism and the labour market. this proposal is a positive one for french cultural heritage, and i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. i will be careful, however, not to make it a mere pretext for further integration, without any real benefit for the enhancement of our identity.
in writing. ‒ this report encourages the preservation of the tangible and intangible heritage of our old continent. i voted in favour of the fact that the eurocrats seem rather to want to wipe the slate clean in order to build their europe, ideological and disembodied...
in writing. this draft report entitled towards an integrated approach to european cultural heritage has various objectives such as the preservation of european tangible cultural heritage (sites, buildings, etc.) but also intangible, such as oral traditions, customs... it also analyses issues related to funding, legal bases and digitisation of heritage. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ france has a rich national heritage, which should be preserved by all means necessary. the resolution, which was put to the vote by parliament, aims to strengthen the preservation of europe's cultural heritage, whether tangible (movable, immovable and underwater) or intangible (oral traditions, performing arts, rituals, etc.). while it speaks of an integrated european approach, it stresses that cultural heritage is naturally heterogeneous, reflecting the diversity and cultural and linguistic pluralism of the member states. the resolution examines the issues of funding, legal bases and digitisation of heritage, highlighting its importance and links with regional development, social cohesion, agriculture, the environment, education, tourism and the labour market. i think this proposal is positive for french cultural heritage. that is why i voted for this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the broad adoption of my colleague, mircea diaconu's report on an integrated approach to european cultural heritage. after the recent serious damage to the archaeological site of palmyra, it is more necessary than ever to stress the importance of preserving and promoting our cultural heritage, the cornerstone of our european identity. in this context, it is crucial to ensure that european subsidies and the contributions of our institutions to the preservation of our heritage are sustained. the report by mr diaconu is in line with this logic, in particular by calling for the establishment of a european year of cultural heritage and the creation of a single european portal to centralise information on the funding available for cultural heritage under european programmes. i can only welcome and support these proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft report because it focuses on the preservation of europe's tangible and intangible cultural heritage, such as oral traditions and customs. it also examines the financing problems of the related schemes.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes the creation of a single european portal on cultural heritage to better coordinate the work of the european institutions' departments. the organisation of this portal could be based on funding opportunities for cultural heritage, a database of examples of good practice, relevant information on policy developments, actions and events related to cultural heritage. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it defends europe's cultural heritage and opens up new opportunities for local authorities and the private sector in terms of tourism.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the integrated approach to european cultural heritage. our heritage is one of the richest and most important in the world. it is essential to support and strengthen cooperation between the various directorates-general of the commission in order to make better use of the european funds available.
in writing. ‒ europe is not just a bureaucratic machine and an antechamber of globalism, but a community of civilisations, peoples, identities, languages and traditions. the common ground on which the nations have grown is precious for the vitality and future of the european countries. the protection of our heritage and legacies must be ensured and promoted. i therefore support the report by our colleague mr diaconu, who insists on the need for cultural preservation, which is important at a time when europe is undergoing dramatic social changes and when waves of migration reach our territories regularly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it focuses on the preservation of europe's cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr mircea diaconu, on european cultural heritage. the text proposes practical ways of enhancing the efficiency of cultural heritage management in the european union and highlights the source of jobs and growth it represents for the territories. the report also highlights the challenges facing this heritage, particularly in the fight against trafficking and destruction of cultural heritage. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which aims to strengthen european cooperation and coordination in the management of european cultural heritage as it is fundamental to protect and promote our cultural heritage. the report proposes, in particular, the creation of a single european portal.
in writing. ‒ this draft report entitled towards an integrated approach to european cultural heritage has various objectives such as the preservation of europe's tangible cultural heritage (sites, historic buildings, etc.) but also intangible, such as oral traditions, customs... it also analyses issues related to funding, legal bases and digitisation of heritage. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft report which examines the financial and legal issues related to european cultural heritage. this very comprehensive text covers both the material side of cultural heritage, such as sites or buildings, and the intangible side, oral traditions, customs, etc. by protecting 'european cultural heritage', we are also protecting french heritage.
in writing. ‒ this report on the management of europe's cultural heritage is a missed opportunity. it does contain some interesting recommendations on facilitating access to european funds for cultural operators and on the digitisation of heritage. but the complete absence of questioning the impact of austerity policies and access to culture issues in the member states is particularly encouraging. the 'integrated' vision of european cultural heritage is to strengthen the weight of the european commission and to give greater european value to the 'special characteristics of national minorities' and 'religious and ethnic minorities'. in conclusion, the rapporteur's overall vision is to encourage maximum private support for cultural heritage projects and to a new model of governance promoting public-private partnerships, the rapporteur's only alternative to the decline in state funding for culture. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ france has a rich national heritage, which should be preserved by all means necessary. the resolution, which was put to the vote by parliament, aims to strengthen the preservation of europe's cultural heritage, whether tangible (movable, immovable and underwater) or intangible (oral traditions, performing arts, rituals, etc.). while it speaks of an integrated european approach, it stresses that cultural heritage is naturally heterogeneous, reflecting the diversity and cultural and linguistic pluralism of the member states. the resolution examines the issues of funding, legal bases and digitisation of heritage, highlighting its importance and links with regional development, social cohesion, agriculture, the environment, education, tourism and the labour market. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ we support this initiative, as this report advocates the safeguarding of europe's heritage, both tangible and intangible, and highlights the issues of funding, legal bases and digitisation.
in writing. this draft report entitled towards an integrated approach to european cultural heritage has various objectives, such as the preservation of european tangible cultural heritage (sites, buildings, etc.) but also intangible, such as oral traditions, customs, etc. it also analyses issues related to funding, legal bases and digitisation of heritage. so i voted for it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on european cultural heritage. it proposes, in particular, the creation of a single portal to facilitate access to information for project promoters and to enable them to benefit from european programmes. this will help to protect our heritage, which is a source of jobs and growth for europe, notably through tourism.
in writing. ‒ this report promotes the preservation and protection of the heritage of european countries. he is interested in both tangible and intangible heritage. it is a pity, however, that it has been largely a propagandist for a so-called 'european identity' instead of respecting the diversity and differences between peoples which are the richness of europe's cultural heritage. despite this reservation, i consider the text to be positive on the whole and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the union today is full of immense cultural heritage. the diversity of cultures and heritages is a treasure of the union and the member states which must be preserved. many european programmes are now dedicated to the preservation and promotion of this heritage. in this context, the european parliament adopted a text which stresses the need to develop an integrated approach to european cultural heritage. the text stresses the need for greater european cooperation and coordination in the management of europe's cultural heritage. i am pleased to have voted in favour of this report, which will encourage the member states to consider their policy of managing and promoting cultural heritage in a global and european perspective. as a member of parliament from the south-west of france, a region with a rich historical heritage, i am particularly sensitive to this.
in writing. ‒ this draft report has several objectives. first, the preservation of europe's tangible cultural heritage (sites, buildings, etc.) and also intangible (oral traditions, customs, etc.) should be at the centre of the game. this draft report examines the issues of funding, legal bases and digitisation of this heritage. i therefore vote in favour of the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ the debate on the right to water was initiated following an ice (european citizens' initiative) which received 1.6 million signatures. it comes at a time when the water market is being liberalized. it would be dangerous, however, to use the pretext of a right to water to legitimize the mass immigration that is affecting european countries. measures to prevent the creation of a 'water refugee' status should have been mentioned in this report. the proposal calls for universal access to water. it advocates the exclusion of water-related services from free trade agreements and the recognition of the responsibility of chemical and intensive agriculture for water pollution. for these reasons i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ even though a number of complaints against the commission were dropped during the vote, and although i fear that the commission will soon impose 'water refugees', i still support this european citizens' initiative on access to drinking water, which is so precious, essential to life. the citizens behind this initiative are rightly concerned about the increasing liberalization of the water market. fortunately, this text provides for the exclusion of water from free trade agreements.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to make a legislative proposal following the european citizens' initiative which gathered 1.6 million signatures to make water a human right to ensure a safe water supply for all. this is the first time that an eci has become a report (remember the one on the ban on animal testing, which was simply abandoned...) and this should be welcomed. however, while the commission is promoting, through austerity policy, the privatisation and full liberalisation of public water services, this report takes up the principles of the ecij by calling for the exclusion of water-related services from free trade agreements. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative 'right2water' has received the support of almost 1.9 million europeans. this instrument provided for in the lisbon treaty has been used to diminish the influence of the european technocrats who are responsible for the privatisation of the water sector because of the austerity cures they impose on the member states. this increases inequalities in terms of access to safe drinking water. the resolution put to the vote by parliament supports these european citizens and reminds the commission to do what is necessary. the proposal also stresses that water is not a commodity like any other and cannot therefore be included in free trade agreements with the united states. that is why i voted for this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the citizens' initiative 'water, a human right'. nearly two million european citizens have signed this petition calling for the recognition of access to water as a fundamental right. it is essential that water should not be regarded as a mere commodity. everyone, regardless of social background, must have access to water. for this reason, i believe that water is a public good that should be managed by public authorities. i also welcome the millions of european citizens who have sent their message through this citizens' initiative.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote on this report because the rapporteur went far beyond what the citizens' initiative advocated. i believe that when dealing with this issue, the position of the citizens should be respected, and i do not support the rapporteur's interpretation of the text of the petition. the resolution does not in any way reflect the spirit of the initiative. i do however share the objective of this initiative, which is to make water a human right in its own right, and i sincerely regret that in this noble fight the rapporteur has taken the side of making it a partisan national issue. this is not the european spirit and i hope that in the future we will be able to listen to the citizens and that their positions will no longer be distorted from their original meaning.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it raises the following points which are important to me, in particular the principle of the eci and all the criticisms of the commission; the principle of a right to water; the exclusion of water-related services from free trade agreements; the need to help developing countries to access water; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of water.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report follows the european citizens' initiative right2water, in which european citizens called on the european commission to take action on the issue of water as a human right. this clearly ideological report ignores the different national modes of water management, production and distribution, since it proposes to take this sector out of the rules of the internal market and favours public initiatives over private ones. with my colleagues from the epp group and cre, i tabled an alternative resolution to respond to the citizens' call for access to drinking water and to allow the public authorities to make their own choices in the management of these water-related services, both public and private. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. having lost the vote on the alternative resolution but having won a number of key amendments incorporating some of our demands, i have decided to abstain in the final vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ the citizens' initiative on water, a human right affirms that access to water and sanitation is a human right, and calls on the commission to take measures to ensure that this right is exercised in practice. this european citizens' initiative (eci) is the first to have collected enough signatures for the commission to propose european legislation on the issue. it is a victory for the european citizens, who have, through this procedure, taken full advantage of this opportunity to participate very concretely in decision-making at european level. the first response from the european commission is, however, insufficient. the executive must therefore, in accordance with its powers, submit a new legislative proposal incorporating the demands of the initiative to guarantee access to water and sanitation services.
in writing. ‒ right2water is the first european citizens' initiative (eci). it was supported by 1.6 million citizens. i think it is important to support these initiatives which enable european citizens to be the builders of the europe of tomorrow. however, i abstained on the vote. water is not a commodity like any other, but governments must have a choice in how they want to manage it. we had proposed an alternative resolution to this effect, but unfortunately it was rejected. on the contrary, the boylan report on the european citizens' initiative right2water advocates a total and definitive exclusion of water services from the rules of the internal market, and misrepresents the responsibilities between public authorities and operators. it also makes a biased use of the notion of 'remunicipalisation' and advocates an exclusive public management mode to the detriment of the free choice of public authorities.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was speaking today on the follow-up given by the envi committee to the european citizens' initiative 'right to water'. while strongly supporting the general philosophy of the report, i expressed, as chair of the intergroup on public services, a small disagreement about the restriction of the freedom of choice of public authorities (particularly local and regional authorities) in the management of water and sanitation. by promoting public-public partnerships exclusively, the report, in its first version, did not take into account the diversity and richness of the management modes in force in the member states (direct, in house, entrusted to a public operator, or to a social and cooperative economy organisation, delegated to a private company with then real supervision and control by the public authorities). i supported an amendment which recalls that it is not for the european union to impose a single management system; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity requires the utmost vigilance. with this reservation, i welcome the adoption of this report, which underlines the importance of ecis as a new tool for european democracy, an effective counter-force and a useful lever for political action.
in writing. ‒ european countries are being forced to adopt liberalization policies orchestrated by the european commission. the supply of drinking water is not necessarily immune to these incentives to open up the networks to competition. this is why the citizens' initiative is a strong act to affirm our opposition to the placing of water on the market as a mere product. in addition, drinking water is a challenge and a subject of conflict in some poor countries, improving access to water is a mission that allows the development of these countries and a certain geopolitical stability. for these reasons, i decided to support this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it criticises the excessive liberalisation of the water market.
in writing. ‒ what is a european citizens' initiative (eci)? it is a so-called participatory democracy mechanism, which allows at least one million citizens, from at least seven member states, to ask the commission to act in a specific area, in accordance of course with the treaties. the first eci launched, called one of us , was aimed at preventing eu funding of activities involving the destruction of a human embryo. although it met all the criteria, it was shockingly not followed. not politically correct enough, i guess. the water initiative received a response, but it was not satisfactory: a communication from the commission. in other words, a kind of gentle pat on the head to congratulate the kind petitioners and the assurance that the commission does not really want to commit itself to the crucial points requested by citizens: the exclusion of the water and sanitation sectors from the rules of the internal market (competition, subsidies) and international trade agreements. i agree with the report when it condemns the commission's disregard for this procedure, and therefore for the citizens, and when it points out the need to respect the principle of subsidiarity or makes proposals of common sense. in some respects, however, he goes too far. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 8 september, i abstained on the report on the european citizens' initiative (eci) on the human right to water and sanitation. this is the first ever validated eci, a tool that has been set up to help european citizens take part in the european debate. the text calls on the european commission to propose legislation that makes the right to water a human right and promotes water supply and sanitation as essential public services for all, i.e. that they are not subject to internal market rules and that water services are excluded from liberalisation. the report is undoubtedly a step forward in this respect, but it is also a demagogic report. the text crystallizes an ideological vision, restricting the freedom of choice of public authorities in terms of management by promoting exclusively public-public partnerships. i also regret the total and definitive exclusion of water services from the rules of the internal market, which i consider contradictory and even absurd, because it opens the door to conflicts of interest and favouritism to the detriment of users.
in writing. i voted in favour of the boylan report because we need to go further, as many citizens are asking, to recognise access to water as a fundamental right. we cannot be satisfied with a simple consultation on the possible revision of the legislation on the quality of drinking water. while respecting the diversity of public service management models in the member states, europe must guarantee this access to water in europe, where 1 million europeans do not have access to drinking water, as in the world. i also supported the exclusion of water and sanitation from any trade agreement: water must be accessible and affordable for all, this is an imperative for the social democrats, whatever the conservatives think. finally, beyond the water issue alone, the success of the right2water citizens' initiative shows how much citizen mobilisation for progressive values can weigh in the decision-making process; this tool therefore enables citizens to find another way of expressing their voice in the heart of european democracy, and this should be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ right2water is the first european citizens' initiative since the procedure was created. it has won the support of 1.6 million citizens and has called on the european commission to propose legislation to exclude water supply and sanitation from the rules of the internal market. i understand and welcome any major initiative from society. however, while i share the feeling that water is a human right, i do not believe that public authorities should be deprived of their right to organise water management. that is why i supported my group's alternative resolution, which was unfortunately rejected. the rapporteur, mr boylan,'s proposal advocates a total and definitive exclusion of water services from the rules of the internal market, which is totally unrealistic and gives a distorted picture of reality, particularly as regards the sharing of responsibilities between public authorities and operators.
in writing. ‒ under the current austerity policy, there is a growing liberalisation of the water market. the debate on the right to water comes from an ice (european citizens' initiative) that received 1.6 million signatures. however, the right to water must not become an opportunity to accelerate immigration and create the status of "water refugee". even if the criticisms of the commission have been removed, this report proposes the exclusion of water from free trade agreements. it is also a concession to democracy by the eu, since this report is a public initiative. the member voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report by my colleague lynn boylan following up on the european citizens' initiative (eci) on water. this eci, which allows european citizens to bring a particular issue before the european institutions, was the first to reach this stage. the rapporteur has unfortunately misused the obviously important subject of the right to water, making it an ideological text that is unrealistic and ignores the legitimate concerns of the citizens who took the initiative.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to make a legislative proposal following the european citizens' initiative which gathered 1.6 million signatures to make water a human right to ensure a safe water supply for all. while the commission is promoting, through austerity policy, the privatisation and liberalisation of public water services in all areas, this report takes up the principles of the ecij by calling for the exclusion of water-related services from free trade agreements. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this follow-up to the european citizens' initiative. this approach to ensuring a safe water supply for all by creating a "right to water" is a great thing in an increasingly liberal and inequitable sector.
in writing. ‒ if the lisbon treaty has given birth to an innovative democratic mechanism, it is the european citizens' initiative (eci). unfortunately, it turns out that these are only too rarely taken seriously by the european commission. with 1.6 million signatures, the initiative on the right to water entitled 'water and sanitation are a human right' was the first to meet all the registration criteria, but the commission delivered a very minimalist official response to the petitioners. faced with this undemocratic reaction by the brussels executive, the european parliament has drawn up a resolution to explore the follow-up to the initiative. it is reassuring to note that, both in substance and form, the boylan report encourages the petitioners in their approach, recalling in particular that ecis are an effective means of promoting participatory democracy at union level. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european water policy. it also called for the exclusion of water-related services from all trade agreements (including ttip) and other directives on liberalising services. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the 'water, a human right' initiative ('right2water') is the first european citizens' initiative (eci) to have met the conditions for a citizens' initiative and to have been presented to parliament after receiving the support of almost 1.9 million citizens. the commission's official response acknowledges that water is not a commodity without proposing a legislative act recognizing the human right to water, which calls into question the very credibility of this mechanism. the report therefore calls on the commission to provide more guarantees on the exclusion of water and sanitation services from trade agreements such as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. the report also calls for the further liberalisation of water and sanitation services to be prevented, while stressing the double game of the commission, which is pretending to be neutral and participating in the troika in the implementation of water privatisation programmes. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ under the current austerity policy, there is a growing liberalisation of the water market. the debate on the right to water comes from an ice (european citizens' initiative) that received 1.6 million signatures. however, the right to water must not become an opportunity to accelerate immigration and create the status of "water refugee". even if the criticisms of the commission have been removed, this report proposes the exclusion of water from free trade agreements. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ water has become a major issue for our society, with a regular supply still something of a rarity in many parts of the world. this very social initiative, ice right watcher, is concerned with the following. first, the creation of a "right to water". while this principle may create a new migrant vacuum pump, in the case of creating a new refugee status, it is a vital issue for individuals and communities. the exclusion of water services from free trade agreements, which limits privatisation of this vital sector. the need to help developing countries to access water. the recognition of the responsibility of chemical and intensive agriculture in water pollution. despite the fact that the text does not incorporate any of our amendments, it seems to us to be an interesting step forward in improving the living standards of the developing countries.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to make a legislative proposal following the european citizens' initiative which gathered 1.6 million signatures to make water a human right to ensure a safe water supply for all. while the commission is promoting, through austerity policy, the privatisation and liberalisation of public water services in all areas, this report takes up the principles of the ecij by calling for the exclusion of water-related services from free trade agreements. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of certain measures in this follow-up text to the european citizens' initiative on water, including the one calling on member states to support the promotion of education and awareness-raising campaigns to preserve and save water resources. i have, however, abstained on the final vote because i consider that this report is unbalanced: it excludes, for example, any possibility of private management of water. it advocates a prohibition in principle of any water cut-off, which would legitimize all abuses in a context where there is a social price for water and accompanying measures to help the poorest households to access water and energy. i regret that the alternative resolution of the european right, which reconciled more closely the principles of responsibility and solidarity, while taking into account the major role of water in industrial activities, was not adopted.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote on the report on the european citizens' initiative, but right2water is the first european citizens' initiative since the procedure was created (article 11 (4) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). it has the support of 1.6 million citizens and emphasises two important aspects: (1) calls on the european commission to propose legislation that makes the right to water and sanitation a human right and (2) promotes water supply and sanitation as essential public services for all, i.e. that they are not subject to internal market rules and that water services are excluded from liberalisation. as a reminder, following a citizens' initiative, the european commission has three months to follow up the procedure by means of a communication.
in writing. the water, a human right initiative is the first european citizens' initiative (eci) to have received the support of almost two million citizens and to have been presented to the european parliament. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for a stronger commitment by the european union to ensure that access to water and sanitation is recognised as a universal right. the resolution strongly emphasises the need to protect water management and water sources from any liberalisation, as access to water is increasingly being considered as a human right.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to make a legislative proposal following the european citizens' initiative which gathered 1.6 million signatures to make water a human right to ensure a safe water supply for all. while the commission is promoting, through austerity policy, the privatisation and liberalisation of public water services in all areas, this report takes up the principles of the ecij by calling for the exclusion of water-related services from free trade agreements. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ since 1 april 2012, european citizens can directly call on the european commission to act on a specific issue through the european citizens' initiative mechanism. the first initiative to meet all the eligibility criteria is entitled "water and sanitation are a human right", and has gathered over 1.6 million signatures. the european parliament adopted the report on the follow-up to this initiative. i preferred to abstain on this vote because i think that the text takes too ideological a position.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that the european parliament has taken a decision on the first ever european citizens' initiative entitled 'water, a human right'. this mechanism, introduced by the treaty of lisbon in 2007, allows the european commission to be asked to propose legislation on a given subject. to be admissible, an initiative must be signed by at least one million citizens from more than seven different countries and cover a subject falling within the union's competence and compatible with its values. this initiative demonstrates the interest of citizens in european affairs, which is encouraging. it aims to strengthen the commitment of the european institutions and the member states to ensuring access to safe drinking water for all in europe, but also to keep water supply and sanitation services outside the rules of the common market. i agree with the report we are voting on, which says that the commission is only partially responding to the expectations of the citizens who signed the initiative. however, the report went further than the citizens' initiative when it advocated free water for all and a strict refusal to privatise the sector, which is why i abstained in this vote.
in writing. ‒ today's vote is encouraging: the european parliament has today echoed the voice of europeans who are calling for the protection and guarantee of access to water and sanitation as a fundamental right recognised by the united nations. the report calls for the fundamental right to water (as defined by the un) to be enshrined in law and for services in this sector to be definitively excluded from the rules of the internal market and from all ongoing trade negotiations (ttip, ceta and tisa). a fundamental right and a service of general interest which, it should be recalled, was called into question this summer in greece with the inclusion of this service in the list of areas for privatisation under the rescue programme. the european citizens' initiative, which makes up for the fact that the european parliament cannot make a legislative proposal, is a way of pushing the commission and the member states to take ambitious measures in the general interest. environmentalists strongly support this democratic tool. water is a source of life, it is not a commodity, it is a human right: i sincerely hope that the european commission will offer a solution that is favourable to the rights of citizens and not to the interests of a few companies.
in writing. ‒ the 'water, a human right' initiative ('right2water') is the first european citizens' initiative (eci) to have met the conditions and to have been presented to the european parliament after receiving the support of almost 1.9 million citizens. there is no doubt that the eic is a unique democratic mechanism that can help foster participatory democracy at union level, so it is important to follow up on it. that is why i have supported proposals to make water more affordable, accessible, non-discriminatory and invested in quality for the future, also supporting improvements in efficiency and transparency. however, i abstained in the final vote because i thought that some of the passages in the text went too far, in particular those on the exclusion of water services from the rules of the internal market and from any trade agreement that the european union is negotiating. i regret that, because many of the passages in the report were important.
in writing. ‒ with the support of over 1.8 million europeans, the european citizens' initiative (eci) right2water is a voice for water as a common good and access to clean water as a fundamental human right. the aim of the boylan owninitiative report is to reaffirm these citizens' demands, while the european union still does not recognise that water is not a commodity like any other. against the privatisation drive of the conservatives and neoliberals, european progressives have mobilized. the report affirms the need to extract water and sanitation from market laws and future trade agreements. the report states that water management, as a service of general interest, is by nature a public management (and can only be entrusted to the private sector temporarily and by exception). the report also condemns water cuts for unpaid water and denounces austerity policies that reduce access to water for the poorest. i support this report because, after many years of fighting against the privatisation of public water services, it is opposed to their liberalisation and wants to put an end to the commodification of common goods in europe.
in writing. ‒ i would have liked the final text to incorporate the most important amendments tabled by the enl group: the implementation of all possible means to avoid the 'water refugees' that will inevitably occur. as of today, the right to water already exists before the un, so the transition to refugee status for lack of water is only a matter of time. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation is based on the principle of the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation, which is also a principle of the directive. the many votes by division have changed the original text too much. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the report by my irish gue/ngl colleague, lynn boylan. this report criticises the commission's response to the right to water and sanitation eci, the first eci to be adopted after collecting 1.8 million signatures in the eu. the european commission had given a weak response, only committing to respecting eu water legislation, improving information for citizens and establishing a structured dialogue between stakeholders on transparency in the water sector. the report calls in particular for the recognition of the importance of the right to water and sanitation as a public good and not as a commodity, opposes water cuts calling on member states to put an end to such situations immediately, denies the alleged neutrality of the commission on the question of water ownership in the light of the troika's privatisation programmes, and calls for the permanent exclusion of water from the rules of the internal market and any trade agreement, and for no further promotion of privatisation of water-related services. this is an important report for future struggles to defend public services and the recognition of the commons.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council statement on the presentation by the council of its position on the draft general budget for the financial year 2016 (2015/2735 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by ska keller, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on interim measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece (com ((2015) 0286 - c8-0156/2015 - 2015/0125 ((nle)) (a8-024/2015)).
i think your time is largely up, mr korwin-mikke, especially with this kind of talk.
mr president, there will be a great debate tomorrow on the migration crisis. today, it is a question - if i may say so - of somehow distributing the 40 000 migrants who have arrived in italy and greece. it is true that these countries must be helped, but they must first be helped to protect their borders, which are also europe's external borders. they also need to be helped to distinguish between genuine refugees and those who are merely seeking a more economically advantageous life than in their home countries. they must also be helped to identify any jihadists who may be mixing with these refugees. they must also be helped to return to a third country or to a safe country those who have been denied the right to asylum. i believe, however, that this aid cannot be the kind proposed today, which is really a fantastic air-raid call which will not solve the problem of these 40 000 migrants but which will bring in tens and hundreds of thousands more.
mr president, the urgent situation of these thousands of refugees who are risking their lives to try to reach our continent requires a strong and common political response, a european response that is up to the historical challenges that represent one of the greatest challenges to our values and our humanity. we need these first relocation measures for italy and greece to give substance to the solidarity which we have so far sorely lacked. but above all, we need a permanent and binding allocation mechanism to commit all member states to the path of responsibility sharing. i welcome the ambitious proposals recently made by the german chancellor and the president of the french republic, which are definitely moving in the right direction. the council of member states must assume all its responsibilities and commit itself, as the commission is already doing. finally, let us respond to the urgency of the situation by collective action in dignity and solidarity, because we are dealing here with helping women, men and children who are only asking for the right to live.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, brussels and the euro-gags are constantly trying to grab new prerogatives, always to the detriment of the nation-states. this is particularly the case today with urban policy, which is not a matter for the union as established by the treaties. urban policy is neither a shared nor a supporting competence. that is why this text should not even be discussed in plenary. but what is most worrying is that with a particularly careful semantics, you methodically share the dilution of the nation states and thus call for the creation of true megalopolises. i quote from the report. it says: "across europe, cities will compete as centres of attraction and develop their own forms of participatory citizenship to stimulate a continuous co-creation of the urban landscape and its multicultural social fabric". this is a prime example of what you might call a cat's meow. if our fellow citizens could hear you and read you, they would be horrified by what you are preparing behind their backs. the metropolitanisation you are calling for will result in the crushing of mediumsized cities and, above all, the permanent abandonment of rural areas. worse still, under the pretext of some european challenge, you advocate the uniformity of urban planning policies within the union, thus ignoring the identities and geographical and territorial specificities of our cities. that is why, in the interest of my local identity and of a balanced development of our territories, i shall vote against this disastrous technocratic project. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, that is your view, mine is quite different. i think it is up to the states to organise their sovereignty. i think we should rather talk about the backlog of payments or the difficulties faced by local authorities in implementing operational programmes.
madam president, madam commissioner, it is true that cohesion policy - regional policy - is often attacked and is often attacked by the same people. the attacks are in keeping with the importance of this policy in the policies of the european union. it is the main, if not the only, solidarity policy and it is also the policy which has maintained significant levels of investment in the regions in a context of austerity policy. that is why i think we all need to work now to consolidate this policy for the post-2020 period, drawing on all the lessons of the sixth cohesion report. in this connection, i would like to say a word about cities. we must distinguish between the large cities, which remain at the heart of the networks of globalisation and are still attractive, and the urban areas in difficulty, which are lagging behind in development. it is clear that the categorisation of regions, as we have thought of it up to now, will merit a review in the light of the new post-2020 cohesion programmes.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the contributions of the two reports, our parliament has the opportunity to renew its full support for cohesion policy, whose added value we must constantly remind ourselves of, even though some people, including myself, who come from a distant overseas region, dislike it: investment in infrastructure, support for enterprises, innovation and social inclusion. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but the excellent report by our colleague, tamás deutsch, also underlines how the budgetary problem of late payment is a poison that paralyses the implementation of many projects. this is a major issue which the council must now resolve as quickly as possible because the very credibility of the union is at stake. macroeconomic conditionality is another area of concern. while member states in difficulty are called upon to pursue serious budgetary policies, or even austerity, this measure is a double penalty for regions which would be unfairly punished for decisions taken at national level. we must therefore beware of such measures which fuel the fantasies of those who oppose the european project.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us first of all welcome the responsiveness of our institution, which in 2015 is evaluating the 2012 european year on active ageing, three years after the introduction of a system which has nevertheless cost five million euros for uncertain results, in the words of eduard kukan, the rapporteur of this evaluation. what is most troubling about this arrangement is your willingness to see our elderly as a raw material that should be exploited and profitable to produce wealth, what you call the senior economy, hiding behind the usual shock argument of single thinking, that of age discrimination, this time. we believe, on the contrary, that our elders have the right to enjoy the few years that they have left, to take time, to take time to travel and discover this world that they have shaped, to take care of their families and their grandchildren. we believe they have the right to finally live for themselves and themselves alone. the only point that pleases us, however, is that we should not lose the knowledge and skills of our elders, which it would be wise and essential to pass on effectively to the new generations.
madam president, madam commissioner, allow me first of all to thank and congratulate minister kukan on the excellent report he presented to us a few minutes ago. french demographer alfred sauvy wrote: "population ageing will be the most important social event of the second half of the twentieth century". we've seen a near doubling of life expectancy in a century. it was therefore easy to conclude that the so-called active ageing of the population would be one of the major challenges of our 21st century. but what has been the record of the member states in this area since then? it is up to us to decide whether this ageing population should be a boon or a burden to our society. i am convinced that the right approach to ageing can be a real driver of economic growth. it can also be, through intergenerational exchange, a pillar of social cohesion on our continent. the ageing population is also a responsibility. indeed, a society is often judged by how it treats its seniors. in most member states, the response to unemployment among the over-50s is based on mathematical arrangements with published rates. pension systems are sometimes completely outdated. the gap between the supply and demand of geriatric infrastructure is striking, particularly in rural areas. the independence of the elderly is despised. how can we also explain the almost total absence of pharmaceutical research for patients over 70 years of age? the european union therefore has a great responsibility in this area. we ask the european commission to study the case of each member state and to make clear recommendations in these urgent areas, including the dissemination of best practice. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i have no objection to this proposal and i think we could, without any problem, work together to study its feasibility in a cross-party way.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, commissioner, i fully agree with what mr fernandes has just said about the new protocols, about compliance with the regulations and, above all, about compliance with environmental problems and the fact that parliament must be informed on each occasion. i shall rather emphasize the agreement of madagascar, since i was the rapporteur on this matter. i believe that this is a win-win relationship between the european union and madagascar, since on the one hand the agreement allows europeans to continue fishing in territorial waters and, on the other hand, it allows madagascar to benefit from a whole system and the introduction of good practices. i think this is a very interesting agreement which allows madagascar to be at the heart of a system in the indian ocean, which is a system for maintaining the population of the fish in question and, above all, to develop and take advantage of this situation.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of transparency and mutual interest must guide the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. since the adoption of the reform of the new common fisheries policy (cfp) in 2013, new fundamental principles for the external dimension have been set in stone. the principle of mutual interest, sustainable governance, review clauses in the event of violations of human rights or commitments to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and finally, respect for the surplus, as defined by the latest scientific advice, that european vessels are allowed to fish. the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is at the heart of these fisheries agreements. the cfp must promote sustainable fisheries governance at european and international level. the international presence of european industry in countries with which we have concluded sustainable fisheries agreements makes it possible to supply the european market while developing local fishing activity in third countries. the joint agreement with guinea-bissau is particularly important because of the diversity of species caught. the european market is the largest market for fishery products in the world. we import more than 70% of the fishery products consumed in europe. we must therefore ensure that it is supplied with quality products, while respecting the principles of sustainable fishing in its environmental, social and economic dimensions. i would like to conclude by recalling that parliament wishes to be kept regularly informed throughout the negotiation process and to be involved in the meetings of the joint committees.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the european consumption of fish per capita is currently 22 kg per year and europe is therefore obliged to import 65% of the fish it consumes. this need is reflected in fisheries agreements between the european union and 21 other countries around the world, including madagascar, so that our shipowners can fish in malagasy waters. efforts are being made to invest in infrastructure, support local populations and preserve biodiversity, but nothing is being done to prevent overfishing, as evidenced by the increase in european fishing quotas. the shipowners must also be made to contribute more, whereas at present it is the european taxpayer who finances madagascar's fisheries through subsidies. as a member of the eu-madagascar friendship group, i visited a fishery in nosy be during a study trip last february, where the lack of equipment was blatant. i therefore believe that the union should rather demand that more local fishermen be hired and trained, that the fight against illegal fishing be improved and that the application of the criteria be monitored if we really want to improve the situation on the ground.
madam president, commissioner, the question of fisheries agreements is linked to our international fisheries strategy and our priorities, among which is indeed the fight against illegal, unreported and undocumented fishing. this battle will not only determine the future of the resource, but also the future of our fisheries, which are subject to unfair competition in the import of these sea products. in order to meet our sustainability and development challenges, our fisheries agreements can be powerful levers, but to do so we need to be bolder in demanding more control, strengthening scientific monitoring of species and, of course, fostering development in third countries. the commission and parliament are certainly to be commended for the very positive development of these agreements. however, the commission too often forgets fisheries when negotiating international trade agreements. the delegated act with the philippines opening the floodgates to untraceable and uncontrolled seafood and the agreement with thailand, a country that is reported to be using fishermen as slaves on board ships, show the urgency of revising the terms of our trade agreements, which should integrate these environmental and social issues. as for next year's international meetings, they must make it possible to advance our priorities and the fight against illegal fishing.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my profound disagreement with the recommendations in this report. under the pretext of combating global warming and road safety, this document is in fact intended to reinforce once again the control of the european bureaucracy to the detriment of the member states. first of all, i regret the increase in public funds called for in this white paper, an increase which, as always, will have to be borne by the taxpayers of the member states and therefore, of course, by the french. secondly, i am firmly opposed to the opening up of national railway markets to competition imposed by the european union. finally, it is hardly acceptable for the european parliament to presume to dictate to the states increasingly restrictive road safety standards which they will have to apply in the years to come. for all these reasons, as you have understood, i shall vote against this report.
mr president, it is in my capacity as rapporteur for the epp group on the revision of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications in the previous parliament that i have the pleasure of addressing you this evening. in the committee on internal markets we had worked hard to try to make the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications more effective and easier. i shall therefore focus on a particularly important issue for me, namely the mobility of professionals throughout the european union. we know that this is one of the keys to promoting employment, growth and the development of trade in general. one of the major innovations of the revised directive on the recognition of professional qualifications was the european professional card, a concrete and practical instrument which was intended to streamline, facilitate and improve the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications for a range of professionals and for a number of regulated professions. where exactly are we today, madam commissioner, with regard to the implementation of this european professional card for a number of professions which have shown interest? a number of professions are thought to have shown interest and a consultation has been launched by the european commission for the following professions: nurses, doctors, pharmacists, physiotherapists, engineers, mountain guides and estate agents. where exactly are we? what follow-up has been given to this considerable creative work which was carried out under the previous legislature?
mr president, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mrs elissavet vozemberg, on her excellent report and on her very strong denunciation of the glass ceiling which european women still too often encounter in scientific and technical careers, in particular. i think it is essential that if we all, together, become aware of the fact that human potential, that women's human talents are too often overlooked, we can make a meaningful effort together to break through this glass ceiling and effectively fight against stereotypes, clichés, traditional patterns and prejudices. these are real changes in mindsets that need to be encouraged in families, in parents, in young girls themselves, who are too often afraid of these technical and technological worlds. traditional patterns have boys more attracted to calculus, rationality and mathematics, and girls to more literary subjects, where they are able to demonstrate their traditional female empathy. all of this must be broken. there is a huge female potential that we must harness for the advancement of all.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the state of the union can be summed up in one word: crisis. first, the economic crisis, which is killing our industry and agriculture. then there's the diplomatic crisis. the european union is as always in the grip of nato, ukraine, syria, libya, to the great disgrace of those countries which you have destroyed and of the nations of europe overwhelmed by an unprecedented influx of illegal immigrants and islamists. let me express my deep concern at the foolish injunctions you have just issued to the states: the european parliament has already said that it will be prepared to take action in the event of a crisis. the peoples can no longer, no longer want to, they who are already overwhelmed by unemployment, poverty, immigration. no pressure is being put on the oil-rich monarchies of the middle east, which have these migrants at their doorstep. the people of europe are being forced to accept immigration, as demanded by the big business. our farmers will be happy to receive a small amount from you: 500 million, whereas we reserve 4 billion euros for illegal immigrants. finally, the democratic crisis, of course, which is accompanied by the demonstration every day more clear that your monster despises the people, restrains their freedom, acts against their interests. so instead of thinking, you jump in your chairs like goats, whining, "europe, europe, europe", as if increasing the cause of a problem can reduce its effects. your atlanticist fantasy, so pathetically visible in the title of this so-called state of the union address, is a failure. the european union is an aberration which will soon be forgotten by history through democracy, through the referendum, i hope, and that will begin with our british friends. the people will then finally have a chance to enjoy prosperity, security, democracy and peace.
mr president, i would like to thank and congratulate the president of the european commission for the high-mindedness, the vision, the leadership and the european spirit of his speech. all these qualities are unfortunately too often lacking in european policy. i would like to take up your phrase, which, although apparently humorous, must not hide the cruel reality: 'there is a lack of europe in the union and a lack of unity in europe'. europe is not working well. despite our joint efforts, european politics is too much confiscated by national leaders. the european council is not working well. it is obliged to decide by unanimity, re-igniting national and sometimes nationalistic tensions where the common interest should prevail. he's having a closed-door debate about migration. its first meeting in june was marked by shameful and dishonorable bargaining. he only makes decisions under the pressure of events when you're on the edge of the abyss. he gives in to the dictatorship of urgency and sometimes emotion at the expense of long-term choices. and he is not concerned about the application of his own decisions. worse, through negligence or hypocrisy, he has just let the finance ministries, which are currently considering the draft eu budget for 2016, cut all the lines that serve to finance asylum and migration policy. yes, it is time to put europe back into the union and the union back into europe.
mr president, i and others offer our condolences. i also want to thank you for your speech today, which goes back to the heart not of the community method but of the european union and the value of solidarity without which nothing is possible. this solidarity is the cornerstone of the european union, of the euro zone, and is a value so dear to the political family to which i belong, and which you so badly need to implement the agenda you have just set before us today. it is in this spirit that i would also like to thank the european commission for having prevented the grexit, because the grexit was the unraveling of all european solidarity. but we have to go beyond that because, as you said, this crisis is not over. it will take courage to tackle the debt issue because all observers know that this debt is unsustainable. so let us approach it with determination and solidarity. in the same way, you have expressed your determination to move forward to make economic governance governance that enables us to face all these challenges, including those that confuse member states with the mass reception of refugees. for that, mr president, please do not just use the stick, do not forget the carrot. solidarity needs tools and the distribution of budgetary capacity for the euro area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. on wednesday 9 september, in his first state of the union address to the european parliament, european commission president jean-claude juncker presented his proposals for the distribution of refugees. he also called for a swift agreement between the member countries to take in 160,000 refugees. even as europe is experiencing an unprecedented social, agricultural, diplomatic and economic crisis, the commission is forcing member states to take in 'migrants' who are temporarily transformed into 'refugees' who will become permanent. the solution would have been to act with courage and go to syria or iraq and fight (as russia is about to do) the islamic state terrorist group. the european peoples no longer want these policies, especially as nothing is being done to put pressure on the very rich oil monarchies to accept refugees as well. we have managed to allocate 4 billion euros for refugees, but barely 500 million euros for our farmers. the eu and the commission must understand that citizens can no longer stand such talk and that they expect a radical change in policy. the only way to save the peoples of europe is to return to a europe of sovereign, free and independent nations and to put an end to the dictatorship of well-meaning, global finance and ultra-liberalism.
in writing. the state of the european union can be summed up in one word: crisis. indeed, between the economic crisis, the agricultural crisis and the migration crisis, the eu is the source of all disasters and demonstrates its terrible harmfulness every day. in addition to deindustrialisation, mass unemployment, impoverishment, insecurity and mass immigration, there is now an unprecedented influx of migrants. this influx is obviously the result of the insane destabilization policies that have been carried out for several years in syria and libya, encouraged by the eu and the leaders of the psr in france. the president of the commission is now demanding that 160 000 illegal immigrants be distributed among the member states in the coming weeks, with bad pupils liable to heavy financial penalties. a whole program... and while only €500 million will be mobilised for farmers, €4 billion will be mobilised to welcome migrants. in the eyes of the european union, democracy is no longer... the french people are no longer sovereign and no one asks their opinion... it is already suffering from unemployment, deindustrialisation, posted workers and immigration. the european union will now impose migrants on it.
mr president, of the nearly 60 million refugees and displaced persons in the world, only 13% are in developed countries. they represent only 0.11% of the european population. so we're gonna sort out the real refugees, by nationality, or worse. the improvement of the lot of some must not be at the expense of that of others. the negotiation of the list of safe countries is worrying in view of the practices of the member states. what will happen to those who have been denied asylum? will they be firmly returned with other so-called economic migrants to their country of origin, whatever it may be? what are we hoping to negotiate with the dictatorships of the horn of africa in the khartoum process? the growing opposition between genuine refugees and economic migrants is going to lead us right into the wall. legal channels for migrants must be opened, it is the best way to prevent deaths and smugglers. these men, women and children all have rights and these must be respected in the european union and elsewhere.
mr president, what are we looking at? the exceptional welcome of people persecuted because of their political or religious views, from countries in whose destabilisation we have played a major role? or are they at the forefront of a mass migration that is essentially economic, systematically encouraged under humanitarian pretexts? of course, the second version is the predominant one. i have listened to mrs wikström's heart-rending account of the case of aylan, but i will put the question to my colleague. how are the europeans responsible for the death of this poor child whose family was safe in turkey? the first to be held responsible are the americans and the europeans who have contributed to the destabilization of iraq and syria; it is the gulf countries that are not moving a finger, as has been said, in favour of refugees. it is the arab league that is careful not to intervene against the islamic state group. they are the criminal smugglers who sell skiffs, making a profit from their trade. it is you who make it seem that europe can welcome all those who want to come; it was the father of that poor child who was wrong to believe in your promises.
mr president, commissioners, your proposals reflect the extraordinary complexity of finding the right balance between the need for solidarity with refugees and between european countries on the one hand and the sense of responsibility which compels us to admit that we cannot take in everyone on the other. i regret that we have seen far too often a caricatured debate between, on the one hand, proposals designed to give one an easy conscience and, on the other, unrealistic proposals which maintain the myth of zero immigration. the urgency is to organize migration policy because what worries our citizens is not just the magnitude of the flows, but also the fact that these flows are coming in a totally anarchic, chaotic and disorganized way, which undermines the spontaneous generosity that we can have in our societies. so obviously we need to establish a common list of safe countries; we obviously need to have a much more vigorous return policy; we also need to have much better organised checks at our external borders, in a spirit of solidarity, between all countries. then, at the diplomatic level, we must also remind a number of countries that, although they have shown great generosity in welcoming refugees - i am thinking in particular of turkey, which has a huge burden with several hundred thousand or even millions of refugees - but that the strategic options these countries have taken, particularly in the syrian conflict, are not the right ones and will increase the chaos in which we are now living.
in writing. i support the commission president's proposals to establish a relocation mechanism in the event of a humanitarian emergency and a list of countries of origin to separate political migrants from economic migrants. i am particularly committed to the creation of a european coastguard, as jean-claude juncker announced in his speech. i have therefore had an amendment adopted in committee establishing european supervision of the coastguard. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it is with concrete measures of this kind that we shall succeed in overcoming this crisis. we have said enough, now let us act!
in writing. the migration crisis we have been experiencing for many months and whose proportions are becoming exponential is not a refugee reception crisis. many of these illegal migrants are not political refugees but illegal immigrants who came to europe because complicit national governments and the european union opened the doors for economic and political reasons. this flood of migration is accompanied by the sirens of the media, the praise of the press and the professionals of indignation and good conscience. yes, the welcome of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants each month on our soil is a betrayal of the peoples of europe who will be the first to suffer the disastrous consequences of this mass arrival of populations. who will pay for the emergency facilities ? what kind of accommodation will be available? what kind of jobs will we be able to offer ? the proposal to introduce quotas is the most blatant denial of the sovereignty of states and of their territorial integrity. if the doors to europe are not maintained, millions more illegal migrants will follow the air call that has been created. the promoters of this demographic explosion will therefore be responsible for the end of european history.
in writing. ‒ given that the palestinian state is not recognised by almost all eu member states, the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine is meaningless. to make this change now is to undermine the sovereignty of the states. by this act, the union gives itself the right to have an independent position in matters of foreign policy in defiance of the treaties. the position of the national front is very clear: we are in favour of the official recognition of the palestinian state and the fundamental rights of the palestinian people, but as a matter of principle we cannot accept that the union expresses an opinion different from that expressed by most of its member states. that is why i abstained on this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the name change: i think that the recognition of palestine is very unwelcome on the part of a european union which is constantly seeking to eradicate the last sovereignties still available to its member states.
in writing. this text proposes to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine. i abstained on this text because i believe that foreign policy should be the responsibility of the member states, even if this change has no impact on the delegation or the territory concerned.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine. the united nations does not legally recognize the state of palestine and the european council has not taken a decision on this matter, which is within its competence, so i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ given that the palestinian state is not recognised by almost all eu member states, the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine is meaningless. to make this change now is to undermine the sovereignty of the states. by this act, the union gives itself the right to have an independent position in matters of foreign policy in defiance of the treaties. the position of the national front is very clear: we are in favour of the official recognition of the palestinian state and the fundamental rights of the palestinian people, but we cannot accept that the union expresses an opinion different from that expressed by most of its member states. that is why i abstained on this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the renaming of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council. since the un does not recognise the state of palestine and the european council has never taken a position on the subject, there was no formal legal basis to support the proposed name change. the proposal was adopted, which i regret.
in writing. ‒ the un does not officially recognise the state of palestine, and the european council has never taken a decision to do so. that is why i voted against this proposal. the european parliament cannot take a decision on this matter before the un and the council.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to delegation for relations with palestine . i fully understand the symbolic value of this change and i am in favour of the two-state solution. however, these two (future) states would have to recognise each other, which unfortunately is not possible at the moment. changing the name of the european parliament delegation will not solve this problem.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that we change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine. i consider that this is in the direction of future recognition of the palestinian state and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ given that the palestinian state is not recognised by almost all eu member states, the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine is meaningless. to make this change now is to undermine the sovereignty of the states. by this act, the union gives itself the right to have an independent position in matters of foreign policy in defiance of the treaties. the position of the national front is very clear: we are in favour of the official recognition of the palestinian state and the fundamental rights of the palestinian people, but we cannot accept that the union expresses an opinion different from that expressed by most of its member states. the member therefore abstained.
in writing. this text proposes to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine. i abstained in the vote on this text.
in writing. i voted against this text which changes the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to delegation for relations with palestine . i am not in favour of this measure because, in legal and formal terms, the un does not recognise the state of palestine. the european council does not recognise this either. any attempt to unilaterally recognise palestine is doomed to failure, as the only solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict lies in mutual recognition of two states.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to change the name of the delegation responsible for relations between the european union and the palestinian authorities. i am in favour of the creation of a palestinian state but this must be done in good diplomatic terms so that the region is not further destabilised than it is at present. that is why i prefer to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to the delegation for relations with palestine in the interests of legislative and political clarity.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries partnership agreement, which runs for three years, relates to the financial compensation paid by the eu member states for their vessels to be authorised to fish in guinea-bissau's waters. it concerns 28 tuna seiners/palangers, 12 tuna vessels, and several shrimp trawlers and freezer vessels. of these, 15 are french. overall, this is a good agreement for french fishermen and for bissau-guineans who have considerable difficulties in combating illegal fishing. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this win-win agreement for a three-year period. this fisheries agreement is in a sense a development agreement which should contribute to the political stability of the country. in exchange for eur 9 200 000 per year, guinea-bissau will allow access to its territorial waters for european union fishing vessels, including 12 tuna seiners and surface longliners and three french tuna seiners. in addition, each eu trawler must take on board seamen from guinea-bissau, which will allow as many guinea-bissauans to live and work in their country.
in writing. the aim of this recommendation is to allow eu fishing vessels access to guinea-bissau's waters for a period of 3 years with financial compensation. the agreement is essential for the country's stability, as it aims to combat illegal fishing (mainly by the chinese) and to reassess stocks... however, the country is suspected of trafficking in fishing licences organised by ministers and diplomats in guinea-bissau in return for a real pillage in favour of the west which encourages migration. however, considering that this is a balanced agreement and beneficial for both parties, i decided to vote in favour of it, while remaining vigilant about its implementation.
in writing. ‒ the text put to the vote by parliament is intended to give a positive recommendation for the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. until june 2012, fishermen from member states enjoyed access to the territorial waters of that country under an agreement concluded in 1980. since its ratification, the agreement has been renewed several times by means of various protocols. the agreement negotiated by the commission on behalf of the member states is part of the continuity of this partnership. the agreement will have positive effects on the development of guinea-bissau's economy and on french fishermen, who will have the right to exploit the country's marine resources within the limits of 12 tuna seiners and surface longliners and 3 tuna vessels. the agreement is concluded for three years. the agreement is beneficial to both sides, and i have therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the coup d'état in guinea-bissau in 2012 led to the suspension of negotiations on this fisheries agreement. since elections were held in may 2014, the resumption of negotiations has allowed a new protocol to the agreement to be initialled in november 2014. the new protocol provides for fishing opportunities for 28 tuna seiners and longliners and 12 purse seiners. the financial contribution will enable access to water and the sustainable development of small-scale fisheries in guinea-bissau. parliament wishes to receive the minutes of the meetings of the joint committees which enable the management of the use of the financial contribution for the development of the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this agreement is to allow european union fishing vessels, including 12 tuna seiners and surface longliners plus three tuna seiners for france, access to the territorial waters of guinea-bissau. this is a win-win partnership, especially since guinea-bissau does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends the adoption by the council of the protocol between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau. this protocol sets out the fishing opportunities available to european vessels and defines the financial compensation granted to the republic of guinea-bissau. the partnership gives european fishermen access to part of the untapped fish stocks in the republic of guinea-bissau, while strengthening cooperation between the two parties in the framework of a development partnership for a sustainable fisheries policy. the financial contribution provided for in the agreement is eur 9.2 million per year, including eur 6.2 million for access to fisheries resources and eur 3 million for supporting the development of the fisheries sector in that country. i voted in favour of this win-win partnership, which benefits both the european fisheries sector and the development of a third country.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text to support research and the economy in countries such as the republic of guinea-bissau. however, we must insist on more reliable information on local fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is beneficial for both parties.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau on fishing opportunities and financial compensation is designed to allow eu fishing vessels access to guinea-bissau's waters. in particular, 28 tuna seiners/palangriers, 12 tuna-fishing vessels and several shrimp trawlers and freezer vessels are involved. so for france 15 ships and for a period of 3 years. in return, a fee is paid and shipowners must take on board seamen from guinea-bissau. overall, this is a good deal for europeans and for the citizens of guinea-bissau who are failing to fight illegal fishing. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau, which is intended to regulate the fishing activities of european vessels in the guinea-bissau fishing zone and sets a financial counterpart. this new protocol is transparent, mutually beneficial and is geared towards better cooperation in fisheries management, which is why i welcome the positive vote by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because it has a dual purpose: to supply the european market while promoting sustainable fishing in guinea-bissau. european fisheries rules must take care of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. the agreement allows eu fishing vessels to access guinea-bissau waters: 28 surface tuna seiners, 12 tuna seiners and an unspecified number of shrimp trawlers and freezer trawlers. specifically for france, this includes 12 tuna seiners and surface longliners and 3 tuna seiners. the agreement covers a period of three years. it will have to be assessed after that period, but overall it is a good agreement for the europeans and for guinea-bissau, which is failing to tackle illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ two out of three fish consumed in europe are imported. while fish consumption is increasing, with a slow but steady increase, a gap is widening to the detriment of the southern countries. the report proposes to renew the eu fisheries agreement with guinea-bissau. the eu has suspended the current protocols following the coup d'état in guinea-bissau on 12 april 2012. the agreement before us authorises 40 eu vessels to fish off guinea for a consideration of eur 9.2 million. the eu clearly does not need to go fishing off the coast of guinea, especially since it has the capacity and space to be self-sufficient in fisheries resources. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau on fishing opportunities and financial compensation is designed to allow eu fishing vessels access to guinea-bissau's waters. in particular, 28 tuna seiners/palangriers, 12 tuna-fishing vessels and several shrimp trawlers and freezer vessels are involved. so for france 15 ships and for a period of 3 years. in return, a fee is paid and shipowners must take on board seamen from guinea-bissau. overall, this is a good deal for europeans and for the citizens of guinea-bissau who are failing to fight illegal fishing. i voted yes.
in writing. the aim of this recommendation is to allow access to guinea-bissau's waters for a period of three years for eu fishing vessels (including 12 tuna seiners and surface longliners and 3 tuna seiners for france). this agreement is essential for the stability of the country. it aims to combat illegal fishing (mainly by chinese fishermen), to reassess stocks... however, the country is suspected of trafficking in fishing licences organised by ministers and diplomats in guinea-bissau in return for a real pillage in favour of the west which encourages migration. however, considering that this is a balanced agreement and beneficial for both parties, i decided to vote in favour, while remaining vigilant about its implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which approves the partnership between the european union and guinea-bissau for the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in guinea-bissau's fishing zone. the aim is to promote sustainable and artisanal fishing, while strengthening the prevention of illegal fishing in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of guinea-bissau.
in writing. i have decided to vote against this report on the cfp fisheries protocol signed in november 2014 between the european union and guinea-bissau, as i consider that this agreement does not contain satisfactory counterparts for the economic and structural development of the fisheries sector in guinea-bissau. in fact, despite the funds paid to that country in exchange for the exploitation of fish stocks, i consider it essential to include more significant measures to support the development of economic activity linked to fishing in that country, otherwise the agreement will be tantamount to a pillage of the fishery resources of the guinea-bissau eez.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for a number of counterparts and guarantees to prevent guinea-bissau from seeing its fisheries resources plundered. the commission has recently discovered that there is a trade in fishing licences in the country and that extreme caution is needed to avoid overfishing. the agreement provides for the employment of guinea-bissau seamen, which is a good thing, since it limits economic emigration. because of these benefits for both sides, i am voting in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and guinea-bissau. the financial contribution provided for in the agreement is eur 9.2 million per year, eur 6.2 million to guarantee the union's access to the resources of the economic zone of guinea-bissau and eur 3 million to support the development of the fisheries sector in that country.
in writing. ‒ an agreement that benefits both parties, especially since guinea-bissau does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries partnership agreement, which runs for three years, relates to the financial compensation paid by the eu member states for their vessels to be authorised to fish in guinea-bissau's waters. it concerns 28 tuna seiners/palangers, 12 tuna vessels, and several shrimp trawlers and freezer vessels. of these, 15 are french. overall, this is a good agreement for french fishermen and for guinea-bissau, which is having considerable difficulties in combating illegal fishing. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this win-win agreement for a three-year period. this fisheries agreement is in a sense a development agreement which should contribute to the political stability of the country. in exchange for eur 9 200 000 per year, guinea-bissau will allow access to its territorial waters for european union fishing vessels, including 12 tuna seiners and surface longliners and three french tuna seiners. in addition, each eu trawler must take on board seamen from guinea-bissau, which will allow as many guinea-bissau nationals to live and work in their country.
in writing. as with the recommendation, the report aims to allow european vessels to access the territorial waters of guinea-bissau. this agreement, which is particularly beneficial for france and the eu, is also beneficial for guinea-bissau, as it provides for financial compensation and a fight against illegal fishing. i have decided to vote in favour of this agreement because it is balanced.
in writing. ‒ in analysing the proposal on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau, the rapporteur points out several points which should be corrected in the next renegotiation. it proposes a non-legislative resolution on this agreement containing recommendations for the commission. the resolution, which was put to the vote, stresses that the fight against illegal fishing should be stepped up. as such, the agreement should promote the development of the fisheries sector in guinea-bissau, as well as related industries and activities, through a better distribution of added value. i believe that the suggestions made in this report are beneficial for guinea-bissau and for the member states. they are intended to improve the basis for the future agreement. that is why i voted for this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report sets out parliament's observations on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau in the context of the adoption by the council of the protocol between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau. the report highlights the lack of results for this 35-year-old fisheries agreement and the lack of reliable information on the conservation of fisheries resources. parliament also called on the commission to set concrete objectives to promote the development of traditional fisheries and the employment of local seamen on eu vessels. parliament called for immediate and full information at all stages of the procedures relating to the new protocol and its renewal. i think that this report rightly highlights the scope for further progress to increase the benefits of this partnership, and i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ while the agreement the report proposes to support is only a continuation of what was established by the 2012 agreement, it does allow for a reassessment of fish stocks and therefore reliable data. the situation in this sector in guinea-bissau is of particular concern as illegal fishing is increasing and guinea-bissau does not have the means to effectively combat these practices. i support this partnership agreement, which is intended to be a win-win for both parties as european vessels will have better access to guinea-bissau's maritime space. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. the resolution recalls that parliament must be informed at all stages of the procedure and that measures to prevent illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in guinea-bissau's waters should be strengthened. these proposals are in my view a step in the right direction and will promote sustainable management of resources.
in writing. ‒ as with the recommendation, i voted in favour of the report as it allows the establishment of sustainable fisheries in guinea-bissau.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau. the agreement allows eu fishing vessels to access guinea-bissau's waters: 28 surface tuna seiners, 12 tuna seiners and an unspecified number of shrimp trawlers and freezer trawlers. specifically for france, this includes 12 tuna seiners and surface longliners and 3 tuna seiners. the agreement covers a period of three years. it will have to be assessed after that period, but overall it is a good agreement for the europeans and for guinea-bissau, which is failing to tackle illegal fishing.
in writing. - i voted for this agreement because it is beneficial for both parties. the agreement is essential for the stability of guinea-bissau, which cannot fight illegal fishing on its own. in addition, the agreement will have a positive impact on its employment level as european vessels will have to take on board seamen from guinea-bissau. on the european side, and therefore in france, this will open up access to the waters of guinea-bissau, where our boats will now be able to fish. we are also promised financial compensation.
in writing. ‒ two out of three fish consumed in europe are imported. while fish consumption is increasing, with a slow but steady increase, a gap is widening to the detriment of the southern countries. the report proposes to renew the eu fisheries agreement with guinea-bissau. the coup d'état in guinea-bissau on 12 april 2012 led to the suspension by the european union of the current protocols. the agreement before us authorises 40 eu vessels to fish off guinea for a consideration of eur 9.2 million. the eu clearly does not need to go fishing off the coast of guinea, especially since it has the capacity and space to be self-sufficient in fisheries resources. this is looting more than anything. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau on fishing opportunities and financial compensation is designed to allow eu fishing vessels access to guinea-bissau's waters. in particular, 28 tuna seiners/palangriers, 12 tuna-fishing vessels and several shrimp trawlers and freezer vessels are involved. so for france 15 ships and for a period of 3 years. in return, a fee is paid and shipowners must take on board seamen from guinea-bissau. overall, this is a good deal for europeans and for the citizens of guinea-bissau who are failing to fight illegal fishing. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is to allow 28 surface tuna seiners, 12 tuna seiners and a certain number of shrimp trawlers and freezer trawlers from eu countries to operate in guinea-bissau's territorial waters. it includes a financial contribution of eur 9 200 000 and the obligation to take seamen on board. it therefore seems that this partnership agreement is beneficial for both parties, especially since it will make it possible to combat illegal fishing and to restore the fishery resources of these waters.
in writing. as with the recommendation, the report aims to allow european vessels access to the territorial waters of guinea-bissau. this agreement, which is particularly beneficial for france, is also beneficial for guinea-bissau, since it provides for financial compensation and a fight against illegal fishing, a real scourge. the agreement is balanced, so i decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ by supporting the recommendation, i of course support the accompanying text and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the report on the fisheries partnership agreement with guinea-bissau setting out fishing opportunities and financial compensation. this agreement is all the more strategic as it provides access to mixed fisheries. it is now one of the most important fisheries agreements for the eu as negotiations with mauritania have been suspended.
in writing. ‒ an agreement that benefits both parties, especially since guinea-bissau does not have the means to fight illegal fishing. i am voting for the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ this agreement allows access for eu fishing vessels to cape verdean waters. it concerns 28 tuna seiners, 30 surface longliners and 13 tuna seiners. of these, 16 are french. this agreement is signed for a period of four years. overall, this is a balanced agreement that will support the development of local fishing communities and help cape verde to combat illegal fishing. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted for this win-win deal. i think this agreement is quite balanced, given cape verde's inability to combat illegal fishing. the eu will, under sectoral policy, monitor and monitor cape verdean waters and support the development of local fishing communities. the agreement, which will run for four years, will allow 28 purse seiners (16 spanish and 12 french), 30 surface longliners (23 spanish and 7 portuguese) and 13 tuna seiners (7 spanish, 4 french and 2 portuguese) to access cape verde's territorial waters.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde: fishing opportunities and financial compensation. it is intended to allow access to cape verdean waters for a period of four years for union fishing vessels in return for aid to combat illegal fishing and support for the development of local fishing communities. this agreement should be made in accordance with the best available scientific advice and the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icsat) and, where relevant, within the limits of the available surplus. cape verde faces three problems: illegal fishing, under-utilisation by some member states of the fishing opportunities set by the agreement (hence redistribution), and concerns about shark catches. as such, the parties agreed to establish a rigorous monitoring mechanism to ensure sustainable exploitation of the resources. this agreement is balanced and i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the text, which is being put to the vote of the european parliament, aims to give a positive recommendation on the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde. european fishermen have already benefited from access to the territorial waters of this country thanks to an agreement concluded in the 1990s. since its ratification, the agreement has been renewed several times by means of various protocols. the agreement negotiated by the commission on behalf of the member states is part of the continuity of this partnership. the agreement will have positive effects on the development of the cape verdean economy and on french fishermen, who will have the right to exploit the country's marine resources within the limit of 12 tuna seiners and surface longliners and 3 tuna seiners. it is concluded for four years. the agreement is well balanced and remains beneficial for both parties. cape verdeans will benefit from support for the development of local fishing communities. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement negotiated between the european commission and cape verde allows 28 trawlers, 30 longliners and 13 pipeboats to fish in cape verdean waters in exchange for financial compensation for access to waters and support for the development of cape verdean fisheries policy. the financial contribution shall in particular enable cape verde to actively combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i voted in favour of this agreement, which is beneficial to both parties, and i would like to point out that parliament wishes to be informed by the commission at all stages of the negotiation procedure for fisheries agreements.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the adoption of a protocol to regulate the fishing activities of the european fleet in cape verde. the protocol will contribute to better management and conservation of fisheries resources. in addition, one of the objectives of the protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the eu and cape verde. the main elements of this protocol are fishing opportunities, the annual financial compensation, advances and fees to be paid by the vessel owners. i voted in favour of this win-win partnership, which benefits both the european fisheries sector and the development of a third country.
in writing. this agreement with cape verde will allow european fishermen to expand their fishing grounds, while respecting the environment and increasing the possibility of scientific research on local fisheries and environmental resources. i therefore voted in favour of this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement because it preserves the development of small-scale fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde, which is intended to regulate the fishing activities of european vessels in cape verde's fishing zone and sets a financial counterpart. this new protocol is transparent, mutually beneficial and is geared towards better cooperation in fisheries management, which is why i welcome the positive vote by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because, as with guinea-bissau and madagascar, it promotes sound and responsible fishing and supports these countries in their development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde. this is a balanced agreement in view of cape verde's inability to combat illegal fishing. the european union, under the sectoral policy, will exercise control and surveillance of cape verdean waters and support the development of local fishing communities. the agreement allows access for fishing vessels to cape verdean waters.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde was signed on 24 july 1990. since then, six protocols have been implemented. the text before us is intended to set up a new agreement for a period of four years. the protocol authorises 71 european vessels to fish in cape verdean territorial waters for a financial compensation of eur 3 300 000. the development of semi-extensive, reversible aquaculture with no significant environmental impact is possible within the eu. that would be smarter than going fishing off cape verde. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde on fishing opportunities and financial compensation is designed to allow access for eu fishing vessels to cape verdean waters. in concrete terms, these are 28 tuna seiners, 30 surface longliners and 13 tuna seiners. that's 16 french ships for a four-year period. overall, this is a good deal for the europeans and for cape verde, which is failing to tackle illegal fishing. i voted yes.
in writing. this recommendation on the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde, is to allow eu fishing vessels access to cape verdean waters for a period of 4 years in return for aid to combat illegal fishing and support for the development of local fishing communities. this agreement will involve the best available scientists and will have to respect the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct). the recommendation aims to tackle the three problems facing cape verde: illegal fishing, the under-use by some member states of fishing opportunities set by the agreement (resulting in redistribution) and concerns about shark catches. as such, the parties agreed to establish a rigorous monitoring mechanism to ensure sustainable exploitation of the resources. it's a win-win deal, so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. i voted against this report on the fisheries protocol signed between the eu and the republic of cape verde, which authorises 71 european vessels to fish in cape verde's territorial waters in exchange for a financial contribution of eur 3 300 000. even though the last protocol provides for measures to strengthen monitoring of exploitation and sectoral support for development, i consider that the investments to support the development of cape verdean fisheries are far from sufficient to justify such plunder.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation on the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde, should allow eu fishing vessels access to cape verdean waters for a period of 4 years in return for aid to combat illegal fishing and support for the development of local fishing communities. this agreement will involve the best available scientists and will have to respect the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct). the recommendation aims to tackle the three problems facing cape verde: illegal fishing, the under-use by some member states of fishing opportunities set by the agreement (resulting in redistribution) and concerns about shark catches. as such, the parties agreed to establish a rigorous monitoring mechanism to ensure sustainable exploitation of the resources. it's a win-win deal, so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ parliament voted in favour of the recommendation on the new protocol for the implementation of the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and cape verde. the purpose of this agreement is to provide fishing opportunities for union vessels in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde. the financial contribution over 4 years would be eur 3.3 million, of which eur 1 million would be used to support the development of the cape verdean fisheries sector. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to strengthen our cooperation with cape verde.
in writing. ‒ a win-win agreement, especially as cape verde fails to tackle illegal fishing. i am voting for the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ this agreement allows eu fishing vessels access to cape verdean waters. it concerns 28 tuna seiners, 30 surface longliners and 13 tuna seiners. of these, 16 are french. this agreement is signed for a period of four years. overall, this is a balanced agreement that will support the development of local fishing communities and help cape verde to combat illegal fishing. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted for this win-win deal. i think this agreement is quite balanced, given cape verde's inability to combat illegal fishing. the eu, through sectoral policy, will monitor and monitor cape verdean waters and support the development of local fishing communities. the agreement, which will run for four years, will allow 28 purse seiners (16 spanish and 12 french), 30 surface longliners (23 spanish and 7 portuguese) and 13 tuna seiners (7 spanish, 4 french and 2 portuguese) to access cape verde's territorial waters.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde: fishing opportunities and financial compensation. it concerns a partnership between the european union and cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the union and cape verde. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in analysing the proposal on the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde, the rapporteur noted a few points which he wanted to highlight in particular. it therefore proposed a non-legislative resolution on the agreement containing considerations and recommendations for the commission. the text put to the vote raises concerns about the capture of sharks and asks the commission to inform parliament of the actions taken to obtain guarantees on the sustainable and responsible exploitation of these marine resources. it also asked the commission to assess whether vessels whose activities are subject to the provisions of the protocol in question comply with the information requirements imposed on them. in addition, the commission is requested to inform parliament of additional international agreements concerning cape verde, so that parliament can monitor all fishing activities in this region. i consider the suggestions in the report to be positive and to provide access to more detailed information. that is why i voted for this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement because it seems to me to be fairly balanced in view of cape verde's inability to fight illegal fishing. the european union will, for example, monitor and supervise cape verdean waters and support the development of local fishing communities.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report sets out parliament's observations on the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde in the context of the adoption by the council of the protocol between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau. the report is generally in favour of the new protocol. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all vessels flying the flag of a member state. parliament called for it to be informed at all stages of the procedures relating to the new protocol and its renewal. i think that this report is balanced and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the report put to the vote proposes to accept a partnership agreement whereby the european union can contribute to the sustainable development of local fishing activities in cape verde. this will be accompanied by surveillance of this exclusive economic zone, which is marked by illegal fishing. european fishing vessels (spanish, portuguese and french) will also benefit from this agreement, which further opens up cape verde's maritime space to them. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which supports this balanced agreement.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde on fishing opportunities and financial compensation is designed to allow access for eu fishing vessels to cape verdean waters. in concrete terms, these are 28 tuna seiners, 30 surface longliners and 13 tuna seiners. that's 16 french ships for a four-year period. overall, this is a good deal for the europeans and for cape verde, which is failing to tackle illegal fishing. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde. the resolution recalls that parliament must be informed at all stages of the procedure and that the latest scientific information on the state of stocks must be sent to it, which is in line with the principle of sustainable fisheries.
in writing. ‒ as with the recommendation, i voted in favour of the report which allows sustainable fisheries in return for substantial development aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde. this is a balanced agreement in view of cape verde's inability to combat illegal fishing. the european union, under sectoral policy, will exercise control and surveillance of cape verdean waters and support the development of local fishing communities. the agreement allows access for fishing vessels to cape verdean waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this partnership allowing access to cape verdean waters for a few french and european vessels. in return, the eu will support the development of local fishing communities and the fight against illegal fishing. this agreement will therefore benefit both parties, and france indirectly.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde was signed on 24 july 1990. since then, six protocols have been implemented. the text before us is intended to set up a new agreement for a period of four years. the protocol authorises 71 european vessels to fish in cape verde's territorial waters for a financial compensation of eur 3 300 000. the development of semi-extensive, reversible aquaculture with no significant environmental impact is possible within the eu. that would be smarter than going fishing off cape verde. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde on fishing opportunities and financial compensation is designed to allow access for eu fishing vessels to cape verdean waters. in concrete terms, these are 28 tuna seiners, 30 surface longliners and 13 tuna seiners. that's 16 french ships for a four-year period. overall, this is a good deal for the europeans and for cape verde, which is failing to tackle illegal fishing. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the fisheries partnership between the european union and cape verde will allow access to 28 purse seiners, 30 surface longliners and 13 tuna seiners for 4 years. the financial contribution for a reference tonnage of 5000 tonnes shall be eur 550 000 for the first two years and eur 500 000 for the following years. the european union is also committed to ensuring the control and surveillance of cape verdean territorial waters, thereby limiting illegal fishing, and will support the development of local fishing communities.
in writing. this report concerns the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde which sets out fishing opportunities and financial compensation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which approves the partnership between the european union and cape verde for the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in cape verde's fishing zone. the aim is to promote sustainable fishing, in the interests of both parties. in particular, the text provides for a quarterly exchange of data on shark catches.
in writing. i voted against this report on the fisheries protocol signed between the eu and the republic of cape verde, which authorises 71 european vessels to fish in cape verdean territorial waters in exchange for a financial contribution of eur 3 300 000. even though the last protocol provides for measures to strengthen monitoring of exploitation and sectoral support for development, i consider that the investments to support the development of cape verdean fisheries are far from sufficient to justify such plunder.
in writing. ‒ by supporting the recommendation, i of course support the accompanying text and therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the context of promoting cooperation with third countries in the fisheries sector, i voted in favour of the protocol renewing the application of the fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde. this agreement is strategic in that it guarantees fishing opportunities for european vessels and strengthens the commercial and political links between the union and cape verde.
in writing. ‒ a win-win agreement, especially as cape verde fails to tackle illegal fishing. i am voting for the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ this 4-year partnership agreement in the fisheries sector with madagascar on fishing opportunities and financial compensation allows access to malagasy waters for fishing vessels from eu member states. it concerns 40 tuna seiners and 54 surface longliners. even if the shipowners will pay a larger share (40% compared to 25% previously), this agreement is interesting for european shipowners, and in particular for french and malagasy shipowners who will have to favour hiring. so i voted for it.
in writing. - i voted for this win-win deal. it is in the interests of our member states in general and of france in particular.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar: fishing opportunities and financial compensation. it is intended to allow eu fishing vessels access to malagasy waters in return for eur 6.1 million in financial aid. this agreement is a step in the right direction, since shipowners pay a little more than under the previous agreement, namely 40% instead of 25%, and among european shipowners fishing in madagascar's eez, the spanish and french are the ones who benefit the most. finally, european shipowners fish more than 20 nautical miles from the coast so as not to harm malagasy small-scale fishing, unlike chinese or japanese shipowners who do not always follow the rules. however, in the future, shipowners will have to contribute more. on the other hand, i believe that the union should rather demand that more local fishermen be hired, that the fight against illegal fishing be stepped up and that the application of the criteria requested be monitored if we really want to improve the situation on the ground. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this agreement while remaining vigilant as a member of the eu-madagascar friendship group.
in writing. ‒ the text submitted to parliament for a vote aims to give a positive recommendation for the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar. since european fishing vessels will have access to malagasy waters and the french and spanish are the ones who fish the most in the malagasy exclusive economic zone, i find this agreement to be advantageous for france. moreover, from a formal point of view, the partnership agreement is very well prepared: it specifies the target species, the expected value of the catches, the amounts to be invested and the expected profits. it also proposes a monitoring programme to monitor fishing activity and identifies vulnerable and protected species. i therefore voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ this sustainable fisheries agreement has been provisionally applied since 1 january 2015. the protocol to this agreement allows 40 tuna seiners and 54 surface longliners from the european union to have access to malagasy waters. this new protocol has been improved by providing for vms monitoring and electronic reporting of catch data. it contains clauses for the review and termination of agreements in the event of non-compliance with the commitments made in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it allows eu fishing vessels access to malagasy territorial waters. it should be noted that among the european shipowners fishing in the madagascar eez there are also french shipowners. european shipowners, on the other hand, fish more than 20 nautical miles from the coast, which does not affect malagasy artisanal fishing.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the adoption of a memorandum of understanding offering european vessels the possibility of fishing in the fishing zone of the republic of madagascar. the aim is to strengthen cooperation between the eu and madagascar in order to create a partnership for a sustainable fisheries policy. the protocol provides for fishing opportunities in several areas and the financial contribution to be made for the next two years and beyond. finally, it meets the objectives of the national fisheries policy, and in particular the fight against illegal fishing. i voted in favour of this win-win partnership, which benefits both the european fisheries sector and the development of a third country.
in writing. this agreement with madagascar will allow european fishermen to expand their fishing grounds, while respecting the environment. action is also essential to combat all forms of illegal fishing. i therefore voted in favour of this protocol.
in writing. ‒ the proposed report seeks to accept a new fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar. although the financial compensation paid by the shipowners is much higher than that provided for in the previous agreement, this is an acceptable regulatory framework, in particular by ensuring a certain distance between the fishing areas of european vessels and the malagasy coast, thus allowing local fishing activities to develop. i am convinced that this agreement will benefit both parties and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it benefits french and european businesses in a balanced way.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar on fishing opportunities and financial compensation is intended to allow access to malagasy waters for eu fishing vessels. in concrete terms, this means 40 tuna seiners and 54 surface longliners over a period of four years. even if the shipowners will pay a larger share (40% compared to 25% previously), this agreement is interesting for europeans, especially the french who have a large share, and for the malagasy who the shipowners will have to favour in hiring. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar, which is intended to regulate the fishing activities of european vessels in madagascar's waters and sets a financial counterpart. this mou is transparent, mutually beneficial and aims at better cooperation in the management of fisheries resources, which is why i welcome the positive vote by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report between the eu and madagascar which concludes a fisheries agreement between the two parties. this agreement will allow 94 fishing vessels access to madagascar's territorial waters (including french fishing vessels). the financial contribution for madagascar will be eur 6.1 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the republic of madagascar and the european community. the agreement allows access to malagasy waters for fishing vessels from eu member states. the shipowners will pay more than under the previous agreement, i.e. 40%, instead of 25%. madagascar is not benefiting from this agreement in terms of employment, but the situation will improve. among the european shipowners fishing in madagascar's exclusive economic zone, the spanish and french are the ones who have the lion's share.
in writing. - i voted for this partnership. as in previous cases, this agreement gives european fishing vessels access to malagasy waters. the french (and spanish) are the most active in this area, so we see this as a positive development. another positive point is that european fishing will be carried out more than 20 nautical miles from the coast, which will not harm the small-scale malagasy fishing.
in writing. ‒ this report approves a new fisheries agreement with madagascar for 4 years to replace the 2013-2014 agreement. the protocol authorises 94 european vessels to fish in the waters of madagascar's exclusive economic zone (eez) for a catch of 15 750 tonnes of fish per year. this unbalanced agreement provides for an increase in eu fishing capacity while reducing financial compensation for madagascar compared to the previous agreement. i reject the logic of going to fish on the other side of the world without concern for local fisheries and without social and environmental guarantees. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar on fishing opportunities and financial compensation is intended to allow access to malagasy waters for eu fishing vessels. in concrete terms, this means 40 tuna seiners and 54 surface longliners over a period of four years. even if the shipowners will pay a larger share (40% instead of 25% before), this agreement is interesting for europeans, especially the french who have a large share, and for the malagasy who shipowners will have to favor when hiring. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the purpose is to allow access to malagasy waters for 40 purse seiners, 32 surface longliners of more than 100 gt and 22 surface longliners of less than or equal to 100 gt from the european union. the consideration is more than eur 6 million over 4 years, which is an increase compared to the previous agreement. in addition, it is specified that shipowners will be encouraged to hire malagasy seamen and to land their catches in madagascar for processing, and that the boats will not fish within 20 nautical miles of the coast in order not to harm small-scale fishing.
in writing. this recommendation concerns the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar. as with the recommendation on the partnership agreement with cape verde, it must allow access to malagasy waters for eu fishing vessels in return for €6.1 million in financial aid. this agreement is a step in the right direction, since shipowners pay a little more than under the previous agreement, namely 40% instead of 25%, and among european shipowners fishing in madagascar's eez, the spanish and french are the ones who benefit the most. finally, european shipowners fish more than 20 nautical miles from the coast so as not to harm the small-scale malagasy fishery, unlike chinese or japanese shipowners, who do not always follow the rules. however, in the future, shipowners will have to contribute more. on the other hand, i believe that the eu should rather demand that more local fishermen be hired, that the fight against illegal fishing be stepped up and that the criteria applied be monitored if we really want to improve the situation on the ground. so i decided to vote for this agreement while remaining vigilant.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, which approves the partnership between the european union and madagascar for the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in madagascar's fishing zone. the aim is to promote sustainable fishing, in the interests of both parties. the agreement provides for eu vessels to deploy 94 fishing vessels and catch 15 750 tonnes of fish in madagascar's waters in return for more than €6 million in funding for the malagasy fisheries. it provides for the recruitment of malagasy seamen on board the ships.
in writing. i voted against this report on the fisheries agreement signed between the european union and madagascar, which provides for a fishing authorisation for 94 european vessels in the waters of madagascar's exclusive economic zone (eez) for a catch of 15 750 tonnes of fish per year. i believe that this agreement does not offer adequate social and environmental guarantees in a country where civil society is faced with a situation of great poverty and where fisheries reserves are populated by protected species. furthermore, the agreement does not provide for any explicit protection by exclusion of marine mammals, seabirds or sea turtles.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar. as with the recommendation on the partnership agreement with cape verde, it must allow access to malagasy waters for eu fishing vessels in return for €6.1 million in financial aid. this agreement is a step in the right direction, since shipowners pay a little more than under the previous agreement, namely 40% instead of 25%, and among european shipowners fishing in madagascar's eez, the spanish and french are the ones who benefit the most. finally, european shipowners fish more than 20 nautical miles from the coast so as not to harm madagascar's small-scale fisheries, unlike chinese or japanese shipowners, who do not always follow the rules. however, in the future, shipowners will have to contribute more. on the other hand, i believe that the eu should rather demand that more local fishermen be hired, that the fight against illegal fishing be stepped up and that the criteria applied be monitored if we really want to improve the situation on the ground. so i decided to vote for this agreement while remaining vigilant.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the approval of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of madagascar. this agreement respects the rules established under the management mandate of the indian ocean tuna commission to promote sustainable management and consumption of madagascar's fishery resources.
in writing. ‒ ship-owners pay a little more than under the previous agreement, i.e. 40% instead of 25%. madagascar does not benefit from this agreement in terms of employment but the situation will improve. among the european shipowners fishing in madagascar's eez, the spanish and french are the ones who have the lion's share. european shipowners fish more than 20 nautical miles from the coast to avoid harming madagascar's small-scale fishing industry. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ this protocol amends the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation and aims to facilitate trade. in other words, it is a question of speeding up the customs clearance procedures for goods and presupposes that they are less controlled. i think that the commission should be able to take a more positive view of the situation in the community. we are very much against the removal of customs barriers advocated in this text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this ultra-liberal recommendation.
in writing. the purpose of this recommendation is to approve the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the wto. this trade facilitation agreement follows the logic of free trade by speeding up the customs clearance of goods. the latter will be less controlled, in particular transit goods which will no longer be subject to any controls. in addition, it encourages the use of independent tribunals (as in ttip) in the event of conflict, paving the way for arbitration mechanisms that put the sovereignty of states a little further into the closet. finally, while it provides for differentiated treatment for developing countries, it encourages free trade, which, in the light of experience, has not proved to be very effective. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to accept the council decision to facilitate trade through the gradual clearance of goods. the signatory states could benefit from a reduction in the cost of trade of between 12.5% and 17.5%. consumers would also benefit from lower prices due to increased competition. the text also provides for €400 million over five years to finance the improvement of customs systems in developing and least-developed countries. we are firmly opposed to any agreement to weaken customs duties. this process will increase unfair international competition between member states and emerging countries. these trade agreements will accelerate the relocation of our companies and worsen the imbalances in our external accounts. on the other hand, the cost reduction will probably be offset by an increase in the margins of the large supermarkets and will therefore not in fact result in a decrease in consumer prices. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the world trade organization (wto) is designed to regulate international trade. through this organization we have at our disposal a set of rules for the establishment of a world trade where fair competition between countries is the norm. in the globalised economy we now know, this instrument was particularly necessary. the trade facilitation agreement is the first multilateral agreement concluded by the wto since its inception. the aim of this agreement is to speed up the movement of goods and customs clearance worldwide. the agreement will benefit everyone, especially developing countries. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am currently against any trade facilitation agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr pablo zalba-bildegain, on the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement. the protocol will strengthen cooperation between customs authorities to improve the movement of goods worldwide. the report supports the european initiative to provide financial support to developing and least-developed countries, in particular to improve their customs systems. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. it is the continuation of the logic of free trade without frontiers or controls, with the 'facilitation' of customs procedures. in the end, goods will be less controlled, and goods in transit will no longer be controlled at all. checks and inspections of goods will be less frequent. there is a risk that there will be recourse to an independent judicial authority in the event of disagreement, which opens the way to an arbitration mechanism that will undermine the sovereignty of states. furthermore, the argument that greater free trade would enable developing countries to escape poverty more quickly is not necessarily borne out by experience.
in writing. ‒ this report is intended to save the wto, which has been under severe strain since the doha summit in 2001. the united states of america and the european union proposed in bali in 2013 a trade liberalization that was very beneficial to them, negotiated by allowing countries like india to temporarily protect their local agriculture when they practice overzealous protectionism and bought the support of developing countries with a big humanitarian aid. the eu is pressing ahead with the agreement before the next wto summit in nairobi in december 2015. for developing countries, it is therefore a continuation of the usual wto negotiating technique, the gun to the head. in the wake of a summit more complicated than ever, where brics are preparing to counterattack with an asian development bank strengthening the weight of their currencies against the dollar and developing new economic and geopolitical avenues. i vote against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation is aimed at facilitating trade. in other words, the customs clearance procedures for goods should be speeded up and checks on goods reduced. we believe that the commercial policy of the states must remain within the sovereignty of the peoples, so that they can trade in their own interests. in the interests of national security and national sovereignty, i voted against.
in writing. the purpose of this recommendation is to approve the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the wto. this trade facilitation agreement follows the logic of free trade by speeding up the customs clearance of goods. the latter will be less controlled, in particular transit goods which will no longer be subject to any controls. it also encourages the use of independent courts in cases of conflict, paving the way for arbitration mechanisms and further undermining the sovereignty of states. finally, while it provides for differentiated treatment for developing countries, it encourages free trade, which, in the light of experience, has not proved to be very effective. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text approving the conclusion of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. the aim is to contribute to the growth of developing countries by creating a more favourable environment for business, especially smes. the report also supports the eu's initiative to set a funding target of eur 400 million over five years to support trade facilitation reforms and projects, such as the improvement of customs systems in developing and least developed countries.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this recommendation is to approve the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the wto. this trade facilitation agreement follows the logic of free trade by speeding up the customs clearance of goods. the latter will be less controlled, in particular transit goods which will no longer be subject to any controls. it also encourages the use of independent courts in cases of conflict, paving the way for arbitration mechanisms and further undermining the sovereignty of states. finally, while it provides for differentiated treatment for developing countries, it encourages free trade, which, in the light of experience, has not proved to be very effective. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation approving the conclusion of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. this protocol approves the conclusion of the trade facilitation agreement. the aim of the agreement is to support the integration of developing countries into world trade by giving them flexibility in the aid they require, according to their needs.
in writing. ‒ the wto trade facilitation agreement was adopted at the ninth wto ministerial conference in december 2013. it aims to simplify and speed up the movement and clearance of goods worldwide. the entry into force of the agreement will benefit trade operators and boost global economic growth. i supported this report which recalls that this agreement creates a more favourable environment for businesses, especially smes, and that it should also allow consumers to have access to a greater range of products at low prices. it is also crucial to support the union's initiative which sets a funding target of eur 400 million over five years to support trade facilitation reforms and projects, such as the improvement of customs systems in developing and least developed countries.
in writing. ‒ this trade facilitation agreement aims to speed up the customs clearance of goods. the treatment of developing countries will be differentiated as their infrastructure and the quality of their customs improve. the bidegain report proposes to accept the council's decision. while some provisions are good, others are downright bad. we are therefore opposed to this for several reasons: - it is the continuation of the logic of free trade without frontiers or controls with the 'facilitation' of customs procedures. goods will ultimately be checked less (especially for goods in transit), checks and inspections of goods less frequently as required by the text;- there is a risk of recourse to an independent judicial authority in case of disagreement: this opens the way to an arbitration mechanism and will take away sovereignty from states;- there is confiscation by the eu of an attribute of the trade policy of member states with countries outside the eu and members of the wto;- this report advocates a more intensive free trade that is supposed to allow developing countries to get out of poverty faster, which is not necessarily verified by experience. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this protocol amends the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation and aims to facilitate trade. in other words, the customs clearance procedures for goods should be speeded up and checks on goods reduced. i think that the commission should be able to take a more positive view of the situation in the community. we are very much against the removal of customs barriers advocated in this text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ as i am opposed to this trade facilitation agreement which is part of the free trade dogma, i voted against this text.
in writing. as with the recommendation, the aim of this report is to approve the protocol amending the agreement establishing the wto in order to facilitate trade and to accelerate the free trade logic by eliminating customs barriers to goods and reducing controls on goods. i believe that the eu should not interfere in the commercial affairs of states, since commercial policy should be the sole responsibility of states, and i have therefore decided to vote against. i cannot support the globalist and ultra-liberal policies that are killing our economies, which the technocrats in brussels and federalists of all kinds refuse to accept.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this protocol because it is part of the logic of free trade without borders or controls, but it includes 'facilitation' of customs procedures.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes the adoption of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation (wto). the protocol, adopted by the wto in 2013, aims to speed up the movement and clearance of goods worldwide through significantly increased cooperation between customs authorities. i have voted in favour of this text, considering that this protocol is of particular importance for developing countries as a vehicle for global economic growth and also considering that it should give small businesses access to new export opportunities, while offering consumers a wide range of products.
in writing. ‒ this trade facilitation agreement aims to increase free trade and reduce effective controls at borders and by customs authorities on the spot. the aim is to encourage early decisions in order to speed up trade in goods. in addition, by allowing the withdrawal of inspection notifications if the circumstances which justified them have changed, we find ourselves in a dangerous situation which is contrary to the precautionary principle which is intended, at a minimum, to apply to international trade in goods. finally, this trade facilitation agreement continues the logic of going beyond the states in the field of dispute settlement by proposing to strengthen an independent arbitration mechanism to support appeals against decisions of customs administrations. i reject this laxity on our borders and this denial of the authority of the states, and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation is aimed at facilitating trade. in other words, the customs clearance procedures for goods should be speeded up and checks on goods reduced. we believe that the commercial policy of the states must remain within the sovereignty of the peoples, so that they can trade in their own interests. in the interests of national security and national sovereignty, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr pablo zalba-bildegain, on the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement. the european parliament has given its approval, which is required for the european union to ratify the protocol and thus be able to fulfil its commitments in the wto. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which follows on from a conference in december 2013 at which 160 wto member countries negotiated an agreement to facilitate trade. the aim is to harmonise and simplify trade procedures in order to promote free trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation. it is the continuation of the logic of free trade without frontiers or controls, with the 'facilitation' of customs procedures. in the end, goods will be less controlled, and goods in transit more at all. checks and inspections of goods will be less frequent. there is a risk that there will be recourse to an independent judicial authority in the event of disagreement, which opens the way to an arbitration mechanism that will undermine the sovereignty of states. furthermore, the argument that greater free trade would enable developing countries to escape poverty more quickly is not necessarily borne out by experience.
in writing. - i voted against this trade facilitation agreement. this decision is based on several reasons: firstly, because it is a question here of a logic of free trade, without frontiers or controls, which reduces ever more the checks and inspections of goods. secondly, because in such a case there is a risk of recourse to an independent judicial authority and thus to arbitration mechanisms, which would undermine the sovereignty of the member states. finally, because trade policy remains a prerogative of the member states, which the eu does not have to take over.
in writing. ‒ the zalba bidegain report was the european parliament's response to the trade facilitation agreement, which was the result of the world trade organisation (wto) inter-ministerial conference in december 2013. although the agreement in question contains provisions which are reminiscent of the washington consensus (for example, the one aimed at eliminating formalities deemed 'excessive'), it is clear that some measures are innovative and, paradoxically, move in the direction of fair trade. the text introduces a differentiated treatment for developing countries and least developed countries (ldcs), which will benefit from greater flexibility in the application of the measures implemented. they will also be able to count on €400 million in eu technical assistance over five years to improve their customs systems. i believe that this development, albeit very modest and very insufficient, is necessary to mitigate the original ultra-liberalism of the wto, and i voted in favour of the ratification of this agreement by the european parliament, as did the majority of the left-wing meps.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is in favour of the wto agreement review protocol. he lies a long litany about the benefits of free trade and asks emerging countries not to do what the eu and the us are doing by protecting some of their markets. it urged wto members to find a solution as soon as possible to implement the bali decisions in all their aspects, including the reduction of trade-distorting subsidies, so that the doha development agenda could be concluded at the 10th wto ministerial conference in december. as for the approval procedure, i shall vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation is aimed at facilitating trade. in other words, the customs clearance procedures for goods should be speeded up and checks on goods reduced. we believe that the commercial policy of the states must remain within the sovereignty of the peoples, so that they can trade in their own interests. in the interests of national security and national sovereignty, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this trade facilitation agreement aims to speed up the customs clearance of goods. the report proposed is to accept the council's decision to differentiate the treatment of developing countries, the time taken for their infrastructures and the quality of their customs to improve. it is therefore in line with free trade reforms aimed at abolishing frontiers and controls. it also opens the way to an independent arbitration mechanism which will take away a little more sovereignty from the states and allow the european union to confiscate an attribute of the member states' trade policy with third countries. finally, the report assumes that free trade will help developing countries to escape poverty, which is not necessarily the case.
in writing. as with the recommendation, the aim of this report is to approve the protocol amending the agreement establishing the wto in order to facilitate trade and to accelerate the free trade logic by eliminating customs barriers to goods and reducing controls on goods. i believe that the eu should not interfere in the commercial affairs of states, let alone in the matter of endorsing this globalist logic, and i have therefore decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ as with the recommendation, the aim of this report is to approve the protocol amending the agreement establishing the wto in order to facilitate trade and to accelerate the free trade logic by eliminating customs barriers to goods and reducing controls on goods. i believe that the eu should not interfere in the commercial affairs of states, let alone in the matter of endorsing this globalist logic, and i have therefore decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report approving the conclusion of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation and on the conclusion of the trade facilitation agreement. this agreement is a positive sign and shows that multilateralism in the wto can work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which allows the european parliament to approve this agreement, which will in particular enable the european union to fulfil its commitments as a member of the wto, thus contributing to the success of the 10th wto ministerial conference. the wto trade facilitation agreement was adopted at the 9th wto ministerial conference in december 2013. it aims to simplify and speed up the movement and clearance of goods worldwide. the entry into force of the agreement will benefit trade operators and boost global economic growth.
in writing. ‒ this trade facilitation agreement aims to speed up the customs clearance of goods. the treatment of developing countries will be differentiated as their infrastructure and the quality of their customs improve. the bildegain report proposes to accept the council's decision. while some provisions are good, others are downright bad. we are therefore opposed to it for several reasons: - it is the continuation of the logic of free trade without frontiers or controls with the 'facilitation' of customs procedures. goods will ultimately be checked less (especially for goods in transit), checks and inspections of goods less frequently as required by the text;- there is a risk of recourse to an independent judicial authority in case of disagreement: this opens the way to an arbitration mechanism and will take away sovereignty from the states; - there is confiscation by the eu of an attribute of the trade policy of the member states with third countries; - this report advocates a more intensive free trade which is supposed to allow developing countries to get out of poverty faster, a fact which is not necessarily verified by experience. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways entered into force in april 2005. it aims to harmonise contract rules and standards for inland waterway transport in europe. it is also impossible to ratify it without the authorization of the european institutions. austria and poland have expressed their wish to accede to the convention, while belgium ratified it in august 2008. in the belgian case, therefore, the question is to grant them retroactive authorization to regularise their situation. we consider that each member state is free to ratify or not to ratify this convention. we therefore respect the wishes of the belgians, the austrians and the poles. i therefore voted in favour of this draft decision.
in writing. - i voted yes. it is left to the member states to decide whether or not to ratify this convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway.
in writing. this report on the draft council decision is intended to authorise austria, belgium and poland to ratify or accede to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni). the convention was adopted by a diplomatic conference jointly organized by the central commission for the navigation of the rhine and the danube commission in collaboration with the united nations economic commission for europe. since each country is free to accede to this convention if it wishes and since i do not see any objection to france, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways entered into force in april 2005. it aims to harmonise contract rules and standards for inland waterway transport in europe. it is also impossible to ratify it without the authorization of the european institutions. austria and poland have expressed their wish to accede to the convention, while belgium had already ratified it in august 2008. in the belgian case, therefore, the question is to grant them retroactive authorization to regularise their situation. we consider that each member state is free to ratify or not to ratify this convention. we therefore respect the wishes of the belgians, the austrians and the poles. that is why i voted for this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it leaves austria, belgium and poland the choice of whether or not to accede to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni). in my view, this does not represent a disadvantage for france, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to authorise belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni), and austria to accede to it. signed in 2005, this international agreement contributes to the internal market in transport by harmonising contracts and standards for inland navigation in europe. as austria and poland have expressed their wish to become contracting parties to the convention and belgium ratified the convention on 5 august 2008, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the accession of a member state to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway must be authorised by the european union. even if it is again a supranational grip on nations, the desire to join comes from the states themselves. it is therefore natural to regularize this situation and to support the authorization of austria, belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it does not present any disadvantages for france.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways entered into force in april 2005. it aims to harmonise contract rules and standards for inland waterway transport in europe. it is also impossible to ratify it without the authorization of the european institutions. austria and poland have expressed their wish to accede to the convention, while belgium had already ratified it in august 2008. in the belgian case, therefore, the question is to grant them retroactive authorization to regularise their situation. we consider that each member state is free to ratify or not to ratify this convention. we therefore respect the wishes of the belgians, the austrians and the poles. that is why i voted for this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the svoboda report on the parliament's approval of a council decision authorising austria, belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways ('cmni'). this decision will make it possible to regulate certain situations from a legal point of view and to harmonize contracts and standards for inland navigation in europe, to the benefit of both citizens and businesses, which is why i welcome the positive vote of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report requesting the european parliament's opinion on the council decision to authorise austria, belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision authorising belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway and the republic of austria to accede to it. the budapest convention aims to harmonise contracts and standards for inland navigation in europe. austria and poland have expressed their wish to become contracting parties. belgium ratified the convention on 5 august 2008. it should therefore also be the recipient of the union's enabling act, in order to remedy the irregularity of the current situation. i voted in favour of this convention, since each country is free to accede to it if it wishes and since i do not see any disadvantages for france.
in writing. - i voted for this ratification bill. the ratification of this convention by these countries will make it possible to harmonize inland waterway contracts in europe. the draft decision also recognizes the freedom of each state to choose whether or not to join. this decision will have little or no impact on france, so we can vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention (2005) creates a legal regime applicable to the international carriage of goods by inland waterway. eleven member states of the union have already acceded to this convention, while fifteen member states of the union have indicated that they do not have inland waterways covered by the convention. austria, poland and belgium subsequently expressed their wish to become contracting parties to the convention. their participation will facilitate the wider implementation of this legal instrument, allowing the development of eu inland waterway transport for the benefit of citizens and the environment. the report before us authorizes belgium, poland and austria to join. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways entered into force in april 2005. it aims to harmonise contract rules and standards for inland waterway transport in europe. it is also impossible to ratify it without the authorization of the european institutions. austria and poland have expressed their wish to accede to the convention, while belgium ratified it in august 2008. in the belgian case, therefore, the question is to grant them retroactive authorization to regularise their situation. we consider that each member state is free to ratify or not to ratify this convention. we therefore respect the wishes of the belgians, the austrians and the poles. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. this report on the draft council decision is intended to authorise austria, belgium and poland to ratify or accede to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni). the convention was adopted by a diplomatic conference jointly organized by the central commission for the navigation of the rhine and the danube commission in collaboration with the united nations economic commission for europe. since each country is free to accede to this convention if it wishes and since i do not see any objection to france, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this purely technical text which authorises belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention and austria to accede to it. the aim is for these countries to join the other member states in this convention in order to standardize the conditions for the carriage of goods by inland waterway and to achieve an international standard enabling the development of this type of transport.
in writing. ‒ this report on the draft council decision authorises austria, belgium and poland to ratify or accede to the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways (cmni). the convention was adopted by a diplomatic conference jointly organized by the central commission for the navigation of the rhine and the danube commission in collaboration with the united nations economic commission for europe. since each country is free to accede to this convention if it wishes and since i do not see any objection to france, i have decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention entered into force in 2005 but since then new member states have wanted to join. i voted in favour of the report authorizing austria, belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways.
in writing. ‒ the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterways was adopted by a diplomatic conference jointly organised by the central commission for the navigation of the rhine and the danube commission in collaboration with the united nations economic commission for europe and entered into force on 1 april 2005. it aims to harmonise contracts and standards for inland navigation in europe. the member states cannot ratify or accede to it without the union's authorisation (article 2 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). austria and poland have expressed their wish to become contracting parties. belgium ratified the convention on 5 august 2008, following the entry into force of the rome i regulation on 24 july 2008. belgium should therefore also be the recipient of the union enabling act, retroactively, in order to remedy the irregularity of the current situation. since each country is free to accede to this convention if it so wishes and since i do not see any disadvantage for france, i shall vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which recognizes almost all rights to so-called refugees, and none to our states if they dare to refuse to be overwhelmed by the migratory tsunami.
in writing. this report on the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece aims to encourage member states to take a united stand in responding to the challenges of migration. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it also goes further by proposing to increase the number of refugees to be relocated (at least 50 000 compared with 40 000 for the commission). although i understand the difficulties of countries such as italy and greece, i do not think that the solution is to welcome illegal immigrants at a time when europe is going through a social and economic crisis (unemployment, poverty, poor housing, etc.). on the contrary, we should be more firm, as australia is, and eliminate all the "vacuum pumps" for immigration. and why not ask the oil monarchies that have a lot of money to take their share of refugees? i voted against this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ this report is a demonstration of the european union's attempt to impose its vision on all member states on how to deal with the massive arrival of illegal immigrants. by making the allocation of migrants compulsory and by imposing quotas on the member states, the rapporteur goes further than the commission in his motion for a resolution. the european institutions are once again showing that they are not acting in the interests of the member states, but in the interests of illegal immigrants, who have been re-classified as 'refugees'. this text is obviously harmful to france, whose interests remain my priority. i therefore voted against this unacceptable proposal.
in writing. ‒ wars on europe's borders and the rise of daesh have led to a massive influx of migrants into europe. most of them arrive in greece and italy, which, under the dublin regulation, are obliged to take care of these asylum applications. these two countries are not in a position to cope with this situation on their own. we must show solidarity and accept that a certain number of migrants are relocated to our countries through a binding quota mechanism. in july the council decided to reject this mechanism, relocating only 32 000 refugees against the 40 000 envisaged in the commission's proposal. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of refugees are respected and that the eu's efforts to combat terrorism are not undermined. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ska keller's report on the migration situation in europe. the introduction of a new distribution key, which is fair for all member states and fair for refugees, seems to me to be quite appropriate and encouraging for european solidarity. a new emergency relocation mechanism that takes into account both the interests of refugees and the reception capacities of the member states needs to be thoroughly considered. in this context, it is essential to distinguish between asylum seekers and economic migrants. all member states must respect and implement the rules of the common european asylum system. asylum is a right and should remain a right for all those persecuted because of their political opinions, their origin or their religion. in the face of economic immigration, however, it is necessary to be realistic and to analyse a priori the needs of our labour market, since this type of immigration is in any case a matter for the sovereignty of the state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because mrs keller supports the commission's proposal for a binding relocation measure including a key for the distribution of refugees among the member states, based on the principle of solidarity and responsibility-sharing. once again, this represents an attempt to override national sovereignty in border control and asylum and immigration management.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to define provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, in order to better manage the exceptional influx of third-country nationals. the report envisages as a priority the relocation of applicants for international protection from greece and italy to other member states. despite reservations about the binding nature of the relocation quotas, which create an air of appeal in the countries of departure to europe without addressing the causes of the migration flow, i voted in favour of this report in view of the emergency situation facing europe and the current humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote on the resolution on provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. it is important to put in place temporary measures to support refugees. however, the introduction of the system proposed in the text risks encouraging migration flows to europe without addressing the root causes of this phenomenon and overloading our already suboptimal systems. the permanent and binding nature of quotas is not a viable solution to a resolution of the crisis. we must rely on exceptional and voluntary measures. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the report proposed by our colleague keller follows the european commission's plans for managing the flow of illegal immigrants to europe. the principle of allocating migrants by country, with thresholds for the number of migrants to be accepted, in the name of a vague and indefinite rule of solidarity between member states, is not acceptable. the doors of europe must be held open and the peoples of europe must not suffer the laxity in border management promoted and maintained by the european union. this denial of sovereignty and irresponsibility in the matter of migration policy are serious attacks on the peoples of europe. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it denies the sovereignty of states to control borders and to manage asylum and immigration.
in writing. i welcomed the emergency distribution mechanism proposed by the commission when it was presented in may last year. i therefore did not hesitate to support mr keller's report. the report broadly supports the commission's proposal, but adds some very necessary nuances. in addition to its mandatory nature, this mechanism must be able to adapt to developments in both refugee flows and migration routes. for this system to be effective, the preferences of member states and those of applicants should also be aligned as far as possible. this would not only avoid secondary movements of applicants between states, but also promote the integration of relocated persons in their host countries. finally, to deal with the urgency of the situation, parliament has agreed to be consulted only this time or in the next emergency mechanism proposed by the commission on 9 september, but it is crucial that the codecision procedure is applied when it comes to deciding on a permanent allocation mechanism.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament supported the commission's proposal to establish provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the rapporteur from the green group, supported by the european left, proposed to amend the proposal by arguing for the establishment of a permanent relocation mechanism with binding quotas. i believe that an informed decision cannot be made on the spur of the moment. it is true for everyday life but even more so when it involves the responsibility of one's country. by allowing refugees to challenge relocation decisions, by making the final destination dependent on a ranking of countries of preference drawn up by the applicant himself, the elected representatives of the european parliament are sending a message that will be very well understood by economic migrants, smugglers and traffickers. the introduction of the proposed system in the absence of a european immigration policy is a mistake. it will encourage migration flows to europe without addressing the root causes and will overwhelm our reception systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ska keller on the responses to the migrant crisis in italy and greece. the text was late in comparison with the decisions already taken by the member states in july, but it gave parliament the opportunity to put forward its proposals on how to respond to the migration crisis europe is going through, the introduction of compulsory quotas and a fair distribution system for migrants. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the legislative resolution and against the commission proposal establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the whole philosophy of these texts is to think that the relocation and distribution of migrants across the european union is a solution to the problem. nothing could be further from the truth. the external borders of the schengen area are no longer guarded, and the whole schengen system has collapsed. the member states cannot therefore be prevented from resuming their internal border controls. the whole of the european union's asylum and immigration policy is a failure. it is therefore necessary to challenge it and restore the sovereignty of the member states. the report by mrs keller does the exact opposite, advocating even more powers for the european commission, including through a common european asylum system. this is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which proposes an emergency procedure for the relocation of illegal immigrants in the different member states. not only is this procedure an infringement of national sovereignty in border control, but it is also based on distorted data, since the number of refugees considered does not take into account the recent crisis. in the name of the sacrosanct principle of solidarity, the eu is once again flouting the sovereignty of the member states in matters of asylum and immigration.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the refugee crisis, which is still testing our concept of solidarity, the european parliament had to formally validate the proposal put forward by the european commission last may to relocate urgently, and in accordance with a fair distribution key, 40 000 asylum seekers located in greece and italy. the keller report, which is now before the house, is ambitious enough to deal with the situation in a rational and supportive way. it not only encourages the solidarity mechanism for the distribution of asylum seekers (so that countries on europe's external borders are not subject to disproportionate pressure), but also urges states to respect the preferences expressed by migrants, especially those concerned with family reunification. more importantly, it encourages desperately lax governments to commit to the long term. criticising the dublin agreements, the text stresses the need to implement a genuine comprehensive strategy for asylum management, which i hope will take the form of a european asylum system based on solidarity and efficiency. because it is the only coherent response to the migratory flows to which europe is exposed, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the commission proposal is to introduce provisional measures for italy and greece to enable them to deal effectively with the current influx of refugees into their territory, which is putting pressure on their asylum systems. the provisional measures envisaged in the proposal concern first and foremost the relocation of applicants for international protection from italy (24 000) and greece (16 000) to the other member states. the total number of applicants to be relocated from italy (24 000) and greece (16 000) represents approximately 40% of the total number of applicants in these countries. these measures are necessary, but the bureaucratic management of refugee flows under the auspices of the european commission does not solve any of the causes of these forced departures. and it would be time, rather than endlessly acting on the effects, to address the causes by stopping fuelling wars in africa and the middle east and destroying the economies of the southern countries through free trade agreements. i'm not going to do it to prevent people from being treated.
in writing. this report on the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece aims to encourage member states to take a united stand in responding to the challenges of migration. it supports the commission's proposal for a binding relocation measure, including a binding allocation key for refugees between member states, based on the principle of solidarity and responsibility sharing, but goes further by proposing to increase the number of refugees to be relocated (at least 50 000, compared with 40 000 for the commission). i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. faced with the arrival of tens of thousands of migrants by sea, greece and italy have called for urgent measures to relocate 40,000 people across the european union. this text, which calls on the member states to agree on binding quotas for the distribution of these people, is clearly not applicable in the context of the schengen area, which abolishes internal borders. in addition, the majority of the member states of the union have an already saturated asylum system that is unable to accommodate more people in decent conditions. germany, which announced that it would accept 800 000 refugees, took less than a week to reinstate border controls, overwhelmed by the air raid it had itself provoked. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ we share a europe, i want to live in a europe that helps, and that is what guided my vote in favour of the provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the right to asylum is a fundamental right. we cannot forget that our common history is marked by those who fled persecution. it is high time that the member states stopped their incantations and reviewed their integration policy. we need courage and ambition: angela merkel has shown the way; today, jean-claude juncker is helping us along this path.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the council decision to introduce provisional measures for the benefit of italy and greece to help them effectively manage the current influx of refugees into their territory, putting pressure on their international protection regime. these two countries are facing particular difficulties in this period of increased migration flows. it is therefore necessary to support them by providing, as a first step, for a mechanism for relocating refugees to the other member states of the union. the report calls on the member states to join in this solidarity effort and to commit themselves to a common response, in keeping with our european values, to the management of this crisis.
in writing. ‒ this report on the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece aims to encourage member states to take a united stand in responding to the challenges of migration. it supports the commission's proposal for a binding relocation measure, including a binding allocation key for refugees between member states, based on the principle of solidarity and responsibility sharing, but goes further by proposing to increase the number of refugees to be relocated (at least 50 000, compared with 40 000 for the commission). i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the current migration crisis, the union must respond and adopt emergency measures in order to be able to manage this crisis in the best interests of european citizens and migrants. the provisional measures mentioned in the report make it possible to better manage the flow of migrants and to organise a provisional distribution of refugees among the member states. i voted in favour of this report because it is essential that the union acts quickly, effectively and consistently. however, the measures should also take into account the specificities and needs of the member states in order to preserve stability within the union's borders.
in writing. ‒ in response to those who claim that 'brussels' is not up to the challenge of migration and asylum, the commission is making concrete proposals to establish real solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states. the european parliament, by voting in favour of the report by franziska keller, strongly supports the commission's initiative for a system of compulsory distribution of refugees within the union. these initial emergency relocation measures for 40 000 applicants from italy and greece will soon be supplemented by new measures for 120 000 applicants, with the aim of establishing a permanent and mandatory relocation scheme as soon as possible. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. they also propose to take account, as far as possible, of the preferences of applicants and member states, as this would promote the integration of relocated persons in their host country, while avoiding secondary movements within the union. the ball is now in the court of the member states, which must show political courage at such a decisive moment for the future of the european union.
in writing. ‒ while the member states of the european union are facing a drastic increase in asylum seekers, the phenomenon does not affect all countries in the same way. the countries at the doorstep of europe, particularly italy and greece, are the hardest hit and are often the first, helpless witnesses to the migration disaster affecting the old continent. i voted in favour of this text, which aims to support the principle of european solidarity and to distribute refugees awaiting the outcome of their asylum applications fairly through an emergency relocation measure. i believe that it is up to all member states to take responsibility and to solve this crisis collectively.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur shares the view that all member states must come together to address the 'migration challenges'. the emergency relocation proposal is a limited but important 'step forward' in this respect. mrs keller fully supports the commission's proposal for a binding relocation measure including a binding key for the distribution of refugees among member states, based on the principle of solidarity and responsibility sharing. it also suggests 'strengthening the principle of solidarity' by increasing the number of refugees to be relocated. the commission proposed to relocate 40 000 refugees based on the number of refugees arriving in europe in 2014, without taking into account that these numbers have since increased significantly. mrs keller therefore proposes a figure of 50,000 as a "minimum". this figure will of course have to be revised upwards. it is a clear denial of national sovereignty in matters of border control and asylum and immigration management. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has just made a new proposal for the relocation of 120 000 asylum seekers to italy, greece and hungary. the european parliament adopted on wednesday its position on the commission's first proposal on the relocation of 40 000 asylum seekers. while this proposal was largely mishandled by the council and the member states in july and many states were adamantly opposed to taking responsibility, it was important that parliament called on the member states to commit themselves fully to the reception of refugees. the report stresses the need for a permanent and mandatory solidarity mechanism for the reception of asylum seekers. the committee also welcomed the fact that the commission had already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers were respected. it's about time we stopped procrastinating. the member states must finally live up to their responsibilities and the so-called values of the european union. these men, women and children all have rights and these must be respected in the eu. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the challenges of smart, inclusive and green growth facing cities, the report calls for a stronger role for the european institutions in one area of competence that is outside their remit: urban policy. the text provides for the orientation of this policy in line with the objectives set out in horizon 2020, the facilitation of european funding for local projects and, above all, the improvement of coordination between the eu and local and regional authorities. the member states are therefore asked to speed up decentralisation. as the rapporteur has pointed out, urban policy is not in any way a matter for the eu. the project lays the foundations for a european urban policy, including the establishment of a timetable. the european institutions are therefore, as usual, keen to give themselves new powers, which would further limit the scope for action by the member states. if this competence is transferred to the european union, the european budget will have to be increased by increasing the already high contribution of the member states. contrary to what they claim in this text, there will be no synergy with the existing programmes. this will only add to the burden of the existing brussels bureaucracy. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which, unusually, arrogates powers not conferred on the eu by the treaties.
in writing. this report on the urban dimension of eu policies uses the fact that three out of four europeans live in an urban area to propose new transfers of sovereignty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. the report naturally proposes to improve coordination between the eu and local and regional authorities, to encourage member states to accelerate the decentralisation of their administrations in order to better integrate urban authorities in the development of these policies, to facilitate european funding for local projects... the eu is still trying to interfere a little more in the policies of the states and to impose on them a real political "dictate" of good practices to follow which have not yet been up to the challenges. moreover, this european and federalist project would be contrary to eu law since urban policy is not within its competence. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the challenges of smart, inclusive and green growth facing cities, the report calls for a stronger role for the european institutions in one area of responsibility that falls outside their remit: urban policy. the text provides for the orientation of this policy in line with the objectives set out in horizon 2020, the facilitation of european funding for local projects and, above all, the improvement of coordination between the eu and local and regional authorities. the member states are therefore asked to speed up decentralisation. as the rapporteur has pointed out, urban policy is not in any way a matter for the eu. the project lays the foundations for a european urban policy, including the establishment of a timetable. the european institutions are therefore, as usual, keen to give themselves new powers, which would further limit the scope for action by the member states. if this competence is transferred to the european union, the european budget will have to be increased by increasing the already high contribution of the member states. contrary to what they claim in this text, there will be no synergy with the existing programmes. this will only add to the burden of the existing brussels bureaucracy. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it supports the european institutions' desire to give themselves new powers which limit the scope for action of sovereign states in urban policy, which, it should be recalled, is not in any way within the union's competence.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve the participation of cities in the design and implementation of eu policies on urban issues and calls on the european commission to better coordinate its work within the union. many of the economic, climate, environmental and social challenges europe continues to face are in fact manifested in cities and their peripheries, or are solved there (efficient resource management, low-carbon infrastructure). the rapporteur therefore proposes the creation of a european programme as a prelude to the establishment of a fully-fledged european union urban policy. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that better coordination of policies and instruments with an urban dimension at union level is needed to provide more effective support to cities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the urban dimension of eu policies. this report highlights the lack of coordination, both between the different regulations and programmes and in terms of coordination of work between the european and the local levels. the european union therefore needs a real urban policy.
in writing. ‒ urban policies are naturally the responsibility of local authorities or higher levels, but are in no way the responsibility of the european union. the intrusion of supranational institutions into this area is a further violation of the sovereignty of the states and the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the european treaties. these urban policies are at high risk of following the vague and ideological objectives of the commission and its 2020 programme. i cannot support such interference and a drift towards inflating the union's budget so that it carries out tasks outside its competence. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it aims to transfer the powers of the member states in the field of urban policy to the european union in the long term.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the challenges of smart, inclusive and green growth facing cities, the report calls for a stronger role for the european institutions in one area of competence that is outside their remit: urban policy. the text provides for the orientation of this policy in line with the objectives set out in horizon 2020, the facilitation of european funding for local projects and, above all, the improvement of coordination between the eu and local and regional authorities. the member states are therefore asked to speed up decentralisation. as the rapporteur has pointed out, urban policy is not in any way a matter for the eu. the project lays the foundations for a european urban policy, including the establishment of a timetable. the european institutions are therefore, as usual, keen to give themselves new powers, which would further limit the scope for action by the member states. if this competence is transferred to the european union, the european budget will have to be increased by increasing the already high contribution of the member states. contrary to what they claim in this text, there will be no synergy with the existing programmes. this will only add to the burden of the existing brussels bureaucracy. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the urban dimension of eu policies. at a time when two thirds of europeans live in urban areas and more and more european policies are having an impact on cities, it was necessary for parliament to set its own guidelines. the text adopted is a step in the right direction and stresses that the priority is to bring existing urban initiatives into line without unnecessary legislation or adding new administrative burdens. it also stresses the need for europe to adopt a flexible approach that does not focus solely on large cities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out the guidelines for a future european urban policy. the commission is proposing to increase the involvement of cities in the development of urban policies, and to appoint a european commissioner to deal with these issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the urban dimension of european policies. as the rapporteur has pointed out, urban policy is not in any way a matter for the european union. the project lays the foundations for a european urban policy, including the establishment of a timetable. the european union institutions are therefore, as usual, seeking to give themselves new powers, which would further limit the scope for action by the member states. if this competence is transferred to the european union, the european budget will have to be increased by increasing the already high contribution of the member states. contrary to what they claim in this text, there will be no synergy with the existing programmes. this will only add to the burden of the existing brussels bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ i vote against this report by the european institutions. as the rapporteur himself has repeatedly pointed out, urban policy is not a matter for the eu! this notion of the 'urban dimension of the union's policies' is therefore a way for brussels to give itself ever more powers, to the detriment of the states. if this dimension were to come under eu control, its budget would have to increase, and with it the contribution of european states and citizens.
in writing. ‒ in 1950, 50.5% of the european population lived in cities. in 2014, this percentage stood at 72% and could reach 78% by 2030. increasing urbanisation is challenging our societies to organise their communal living spaces in the best way. the rapporteur has a good list of issues: climate change, demographic change and improving the education system. but parliament is consulted here in order to promote the commission's urban agenda for the eu, which is based in particular on the competition of macro-regions and 'administrative action at lower cost'. on the contrary, the report does not address rural desertification and its consequences for access to services for citizens. it is mainly limited to a series of good words, such as on the integration of citizens in the european legislative process, in particular through new technological tools, without explaining how. i do not want to participate in such a biased consultation, whose sole purpose is to approve and serve the interests of the european commission which once again exceeds its powers. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the challenges of smart, inclusive and green growth facing cities, the report calls for a stronger role for the european institutions in one area of competence that is outside their remit: urban policy. the text provides for the orientation of this policy in line with the objectives set out in horizon 2020, the facilitation of european funding for local projects and, above all, the improvement of coordination between the eu and local and regional authorities. this is why the member states are called upon to accelerate decentralisation. as the rapporteur has pointed out, urban policy is not in any way a matter for the eu. the project lays the foundations for a european urban policy, including the establishment of a timetable. the european institutions are therefore, as usual, keen to give themselves new powers, which would further limit the scope for action by the member states. if this competence is transferred to the european union, the european budget will have to be increased by increasing the already high contribution of the member states. contrary to what they claim in this text, there will be no synergy with the existing programmes. this will only add to the burden of the existing brussels bureaucracy. i voted against it.
in writing. this report on the urban dimension of eu policies uses the fact that three out of four europeans live in an urban area to propose new transfers of sovereignty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. the report naturally proposes to improve coordination between the eu and local and regional authorities, to encourage member states to accelerate the decentralisation of their administrations in order to better integrate urban authorities into the development of these policies, to facilitate european funding for local projects, etc. this european project would be contrary to eu law since urban policy is not within its competence. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which sets out guidelines for a future european urban policy. the report recalls that many eu policies have an impact on cities and that it is important to involve them more closely in the development of these policies. the commission is proposing that a commissioner be appointed to deal with these issues. i am in favour of these proposals which will improve the coherence of urban systems.
in writing. ‒ i supported the westphal report, which sets out the guidelines for a future european urban policy. many eu policies have an impact on cities and it is important to improve their coherence and coordination without unnecessary legislation. we also call for better involvement of cities throughout the policy-making process.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the launch by the commission of an urban agenda for the european union under the cohesion policy. this report calls for cities and the urban dimension to be placed at the heart of all relevant european policies. he recalled that cities, which now host more than 70% of the population, face many challenges such as climate change and new demographic shifts. i spoke on this subject, stressing the need to act to reduce the widening gaps in wealth and development between regions, leaving out rural areas and disadvantaged neighbourhoods, even in the most developed regions.
in writing. ‒ this report on the urban dimension of eu policies uses the fact that three out of four europeans live in an urban area to propose new transfers of sovereignty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. the report naturally proposes to improve coordination between the eu and local and regional authorities, to encourage member states to accelerate the decentralisation of their administrations in order to better integrate urban authorities into the development of these policies, to facilitate european funding for local projects, etc. this european project would be contrary to eu law since urban policy is not within its competence. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, 72% of the european population lived in urban areas and this figure is estimated to rise to 78% by 2030. urban areas are increasingly strategic economically and socially. with this in mind, the european parliament adopted a report setting out the guidelines for a future european urban policy. i voted in favour of this text, which stresses the need for a coherent and coordinated urban policy within the union.
in writing. ‒ as the rapporteur points out, urban policy is not in any way a matter for the eu. the project lays the foundations for a european urban policy, including the establishment of a timetable. the european institutions are therefore, as usual, keen to give themselves new powers, which would further limit the scope for action by the member states. if this competence is transferred to the european union, the european budget will have to be increased by increasing the already high contribution of the member states. contrary to what they claim in this text, there will be no synergy with the existing programmes. this will only add to the burden of the existing brussels bureaucracy. i therefore vote against the adoption of this text.
mr president, madam high representative, for years now we have seen the security situation in the middle east deteriorate steadily and i would say that the current situation is even worse, since we also have an almost total destabilisation of the region which has consequences for other regions. we see it in africa, but we also see it in europe in all areas, whether it's the migration of exiles or the migration of terrorists. madam high representative, i believe that our history, our influence, our ability to talk to all countries and our moral as well as military strength obliges us. they oblige us and they also enable us to act by bringing together all those who can play a part in the restoration of dialogue and trust. today more than ever, i believe that the rise of terrorism and the destabilization of the region require rapid progress. there are fewer and fewer firing windows for reconciliation and peace or for stabilization of the region. the basic solutions are known and are also mentioned in the resolution which we shall be discussing tomorrow. the problem is the will to act and the confidence. madam high representative, i believe that what is new in this resolution is the unanimity achieved in order to give you support that will actually enable you to act and to have a driving role in motivating and perhaps forcing some parties to come back to the table. i think the key problem is actually - i've said this before - the trust problem. after talking with the heads of state and ministers of both countries, it is clear that solutions are being recognized, but confidence is lacking. so, everyone today understood that action must be taken. madam high representative, you have our full support beyond our differences and our differences; we wanted to mark it. it's up to you to prove us right.
mr president, madam vice-president, the middle east is on fire and blood. it has sunk into an indescribable chaos: destruction of men, destruction of memory, destruction of differences in favour of the islamic totalitarianism that is spreading in the middle east and infiltrating all over europe. the middle east is bleeding and its blood is now flowing to europe. but who destroyed the nation states of iraq, libya and syria? who destroyed the arab governments that had subordinated the religious to the political, maintained peaceful coexistence between ethno-religious communities, allowed women to gain autonomy and dignity? who has awakened the jihadism of islam everywhere? who created this monstrous islamic state that turns children into butchers and destroys our millennia-old heritage? who supported islamic fundamentalism in afghanistan in the late 1980s? who supported him in yugoslavia in 1990? who bombed serbia in 1999, a historic bulwark against islamic expansion into europe? who today is arming the neo-nazi militias and the chechen jihadist battalions that massacre russian-speaking villagers in eastern ukraine? who supports islamic communalism and the building of mosques all over europe? who wants to force the nations of central and eastern europe to turn their backs on their civilization by accepting muslim immigration? who is it? as you all know, it is euro-atlanticism through the tyranny of emotion that neutralizes the reason of the peoples, through nato bombs and the flood of migration. many of you here will be complicit, in the face of history, in the slow destruction of our civilization, the european and christian civilization.
mr president, i will also take some of the time that my colleague did not take, and my group agrees with that. the destruction of the near and middle east is due first of all to the destruction of iraq and the useless war in iraq, to the sectarian management that was subsequently made of iraq, to the subsequent destruction of libya, to interventionism - also french, it must be said - and to the destruction of syria. all these acts were committed because of the right of interference which the west and the union give themselves to manifest imperialism, supposedly in the name of human rights and democracy but, unfortunately, in reality in the service of external interests which are contrary to our european interests. it is also the desire of the united states to create profitable chaos in order to prevent the creation of a eurasian and euro-continental union. in the face of this, i would nevertheless like to stress, in relation to the criticisms made of israel, that this country is a pole of stability and democracy and that if we really want to make it also a pole of war, let us advance in this idea of two states. we shall then see what the outcome will be for israel, which, as i have already said, is the only pole of stability and democracy. in these circumstances, it is scandalous, irresponsible and, in my view, a crime of high treason to prevent the states from controlling the flows of migrants into which the islamic state, which boasts of this, has itself claimed the infiltration of its fighters, who will tomorrow be a factor of instability in the near and middle east and will reach our continent. it is irresponsible that regimes like egypt and syria are destabilised and, in the end, are subjected to the methods - i must say - of sorcerer's apprentices who are also - let us be clear - commissioners. to top it all off, we support and you, parliament and the commission, support turkey when that country has just attacked the kurds of iraq who are fighting against the islamic state. but you have, and we have, largely remained deaf to the agonizing cries of the christian minorities in the east. where were our tears when we saw the thousands of women and men sold into slavery, raped and beheaded? our moral is to demand that the abandoned, forgotten and defenceless peoples of europe accept the misery of the imperial wars we have supported. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. where is our heart when we see the widespread suffering of other peoples and we cling to the image of it? the union has betrayed itself, the union will be judged by the peoples and by history.
mr president, madam high representative, this israeli-palestinian conflict - everyone here knows it - has now been going on for 67 years. the regional context has probably never been so bad since the beginning of the conflict. wherever we look, to the borders of israel and palestine, to syria where the islamic state is now operating, to jordan with its hundreds of thousands of refugees, to lebanon more destabilized than ever or to egypt which is also experiencing difficult times, we see clearly that perhaps the paradox of these situations is that it is probably time to take the initiative. that is why i support what you are doing on behalf of the european union. i really ask you to think about a new framework for negotiations which is more effective than the quartet. we must rethink the regional and international framework for action that we europeans can promote. it is indeed paradoxical, but it is probably the right time for the european union to take the initiative.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, you have made a very interesting start to your speech, in which you stressed that the european union should get closer to belarus, which i believe is necessary in order to perhaps eventually also promote a rapprochement with russia. at the end of your speech i detected a reluctance: you said that perhaps we should encourage the coming to power in belarus of elements closer to the european union than to russia, if i understand correctly. isn't that a contradiction? i didn't quite get that. i personally prefer the first part of your speech, which dealt with the question of rapprochement with belarus in order to promote that with russia.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 october there will be a presidential election in belarus. in 1995 and 1996, the country voted in a referendum to join russia. the european union has since implemented a sanctions regime that has been steadily tightened after each election to make belarus pay for its pro-russian choice. the lifting of sanctions against 26 belarusian officials and the release of opposition activists by the minsk authorities are late but positive steps towards unblocking diplomatic relations between the eu member states and belarus. this is something to be stressed and we must move forward. i am afraid that it would be a grave mistake, shared by your services, madam commissioner, to hope to take advantage of this situation to put belarus into a pro-western policy that seeks to divide europe further. it is a comprehensive dialogue between the european union, its states and the states of the eurasian union that must be established. finally, it is worth noting the extremely positive role of president lukashenko in all matters relating to the minsk agreements.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while we cannot but regret that the european union is maintaining its positions of systematic hostility towards the russian federation, we must welcome the improvement in our relations with belarus. it was about time, especially after the efforts of minsk to achieve a lasting ceasefire in ukraine. so please don't make the same mistake with ukraine. yes, let us get closer to belarus but let us not try to distance it from its russian neighbour. belarus can and must play the role that ukraine played before the crisis: a bridge, a link between the russian federation and the european nations. at a time when europe is facing the immense challenge of millions of so-called refugees arriving on our soil, it is essential that our continent as a whole finally stops tearing itself apart. the reality of this outpouring is far more than the fiction imagined by jean raspail in his prophetic book the camp of the saints. so let's stop dividing ourselves or the whole old continent will be plunged into chaos.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, iran must not have nuclear weapons, but for once it is time to return to reality and efficiency. the reality is to make iran a welcoming nation again in the concert of nations. yes, the geneva agreement was a good agreement because it allows iran to apply the non-proliferation treaty. yes, iran will have access to civilian nuclear power. yes, iran can be a place to visit again. but it must also be effective, but how? by giving iran the opportunity to play a major role in conflicts today, particularly in the middle east. like china and russia, it must now enable us to wage an effective struggle, particularly in syria, precisely to bring the islamic state to its knees so that iran can once again become the great regional partner that europe needs.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for europe to open its eyes to an indisputable fact. the social and solidarity economy has done much more than resist the crisis; it is one of the best anti-crisis remedies. in ten years, the social and solidarity economy has created 23% of jobs, while the traditional economy has created only 7%. this is already 14 million employees in europe today. this is the milk and yogurt producer who produces for the canteens in his territory, for the retirement homes and for the families. this entrepreneur is organising meetings between young parents and nannies via an internet platform. it is this marketing company that employs 100 percent disabled workers and gives them the place they deserve in society. we're talking about an economic model that gives meaning to those who work and those who benefit from it. because profit is humanity's priority, because it enables its members to become employers, employees and, in the future, responsible consumers. we are talking about an economic model that provides jobs that cannot be relocated, that are open to all, and that is not a small thing, especially for the younger generation. it is up to us to really extend this model to our whole territory, in particular by facilitating their access to finance. let us introduce social and environmental criteria in public procurement so that priority is given to works which bring the greatest added value, not only economic but also social and environmental, rather than those which merely play the low-cost card. so, ladies and gentlemen, i make a solemn appeal to you. we are three months away from cop 21. you are able today to send that message. reconcile the climate with the environment, reconcile the climate with the economy, reconcile the climate with the social, reconcile the climate with well-being but above all reconcile the climate with solidarity. this is the chance you must seize.
in writing. making the european labour market competitive is a major challenge when the unemployment figures in the eu are known. one word comes up often: flexibility. labour market reforms must promote flexibility in training and education, labour markets must be made more flexible and greater mobility of workers must be ensured. the main idea is therefore to make the workforce malleable to meet the demands of the market - in other words, the market decides and men just have to obey. the widespread use of the eures network and immigration must complete this process. in order to adapt european labour markets to the context of globalisation, the eu is opting for the displacement of populations, much less the social dumping that is taking place. however, competitiveness in the eu could suffer from national specificities, as states also need to be flexible and accommodating in undertaking the necessary reforms. in short, everything must converge to answer the sirens of ultra-liberalism. but employment policy remains the responsibility of the states, not the eu, and the complicity of the states is still necessary to organise the flexibility of the workforce...
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, exactly one year ago, in the september 2014 plenary session, our parliament debated access to life-saving medicines in europe, at the initiative of the greens/efa group. the vast majority of members present then made the same observation as we are making today, namely that the health care systems in europe are on the verge of suffocation and that their viability is threatened. if access to health care for all is under threat everywhere in europe, it is above all because of my colleague who intervened, because innovative medicines are very expensive. the case of the sovaldi we have discussed, this drug for hepatitis c sold in france costs about 41 000 euros, but because we have to add another drug, it costs 100 000 euros per patient per year, and it will cost 700 million euros per year to the social security. when you add in all the new drugs that are very expensive, it's sure to blow up the social security accounts. we wonder why they are so expensive, especially when we make a precise analysis - already done in the case of the sovaldi by associations - we realize that there are large amounts of public money that have directly or indirectly allowed their invention. this is mainly because our pharmaceutical research and development model is seriously and chronically perverted. the net margins and profits for some companies are 10 to 40 percent, you see it's incredible. the pharmaceutical industry is the most profitable industry at the moment, and so we have to introduce conditionality. i'm all for helping pharmaceutical companies, but only if there's public money. there should be no patents, that is, we should submit the following idea: innovation is ok, but no patents and the price of medicines may be accessible to everyone. this is what needs to be re-formulated in the case of this monopoly in relation to the companies.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this report on the application of eu law is reprehensible because it refuses to acknowledge the european union's colossal failure. in paragraph 9 he admits that 'the union does not meet the expectations of the citizens', but he draws an absurd conclusion from this. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this is europe in the gutter. worse still, in paragraph 39, it states that 'the effective implementation of the european asylum system is an absolute priority'. in the face of the flood of migration we are experiencing, it is urgent for the states to take back their sovereignty and to send the brussels commission to the dustbin of history. the european union must be replaced by a europe of nations.
author. mr president, mr preda may not like it, but for several months this parliament has been denouncing the situation in azerbaijan. in its 2015 follow-up report, the commission stated that the democratic human rights situation in the country had significantly deteriorated. the union and azerbaijan are bound by a partnership agreement and the commission and council are pushing for an association agreement. as the process is blocked, efforts are being made to implement a protocol for participation in the european union programme and mr tusk visited mr ilham aliyev last july. we dream. so, no, mr preda, the instrumentalisation is not on this side of the house. you're in no position to lecture us. stop it, you two! the background of tensions with russia and the country's large hydrocarbon reserves undoubtedly explain the behaviour of the european institutions and yours in particular. how can we make our votes credible to avoid human rights being sacrificed once again? these two measures explain why the ruling clan thinks it can enjoy total impunity at the expense of human rights defenders in this country, which deserves our respect.
in writing. - i voted against this report on self-satisfaction and self-promotion. who today can believe that the european union is synonymous with employment and growth?
in writing. this investment for jobs and growth report aims to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union. these cohesion policies aim to reduce regional disparities and competitiveness gaps in the union. however, it is already forgotten that these disparities are largely fuelled by the existence of a single currency, which leads to a divergence in productive capacities. in reality, under the guise of 'cohesion', this text is intended to increase the union's constraints on the eligibility of investments and to give greater prerogatives to the large regional authorities to the detriment of the nation states. the union is still trying to divest the states of their sovereignty a little more... the commission thus wants to increase the mobilisation of european funds to reduce regional disparities, even though its policies are responsible for the differences in competitiveness. i also object to the use of funds to promote roma integration. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ regional disparities and competitiveness gaps are not the main cause of the difficulties faced by the developed european countries. they existed long before the creation of the european union and have never created an obstacle to the development of trade between states. it was the imposition of a single currency, despite these differences between states, that created a decisive advantage for the best performing country at the expense of the others, thus accentuating disparities. one of the objectives of the single currency was to force member states to harmonise their policies, standards and conditions of employment. despite the unwavering commitment of the actors in this direction, this did not happen, because each country had built over the years a lasting balance between all these elements. to touch one of them in order to harmonize with its counterpart in the other countries is to create insurmountable imbalances within each country, sometimes generating social unrest. the only solution is to put an end to this adventure of the single currency and to restore the freedom of monetary policy and sovereignty of each country, which will revive trade and eventually restore full employment. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report uses the growing competitiveness gaps in europe as a pretext for strengthening the eu's cohesion policy, which would reduce regional disparities by replacing the lack of public investment. this means that €350 billion will be invested to combat youth unemployment, to facilitate the financing of smes and to promote the energy transition. these laudable goals hide a sad reality. the strengthening of this cohesion policy will increase the union's constraints on the eligibility of investments and will give more prerogatives to regional authorities, to the detriment of the nation states. the philosophy of this text runs counter to the ideas we advocate. the commission is acting as the fireman. it is responsible for widening the competitiveness gap, and at the same time advocates greater use of european funds to reduce these regional disparities. the solutions offered are also pathetic and even counterproductive. it is impossible to simplify procedures by strengthening administrations, just as it is impossible to create synergies with other funds if the means are not shared. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is a public investment policy of the union which emphasises european solidarity. these two main funds - the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european social fund (esf) - have enabled many citizens to complete their projects. the erdf has created 660 000 jobs and financed many projects and smes. the esf has provided employment for 5.7 million inactive people. in this time of crisis, this is the kind of instrument we need. many people say that europe is responsible for all the ills, but we can see from these results that this is far from the case. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for a strong mobilisation of european funds to reduce these regional disparities. it proposes, in particular, that these funds be used for the reception of roma. this philosophy of cohesion policy is contrary to my principles.
in writing. ‒ this 6th report on economic, social and territorial cohesion provides an overview of the current state of the union's cohesion policy. the rapporteur analyses the past and present results and highlights the undeniable successes of cohesion policy, particularly in terms of job creation (600 000 thanks to the erdf) and support for projects to create new enterprises (through the esf). i think that this report is balanced on the one hand, and that it pays particular attention to supporting the real economy, to developing more targeted regulation and to reducing the administrative burden in the context of the future cohesion policy of the union on the other hand, so i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on investment for jobs and growth. today, cohesion policy is a key investment strategy in the real economy across the union and represents an instrument for growth and jobs. i support this policy, which is the european union's main instrument for reducing economic, social and territorial inequalities.
in writing. ‒ the proposed report is an illustration of the eu's stealthy method of increasing its regulatory action and leverage. after having destroyed the economic barriers between european states to the detriment of workers who have suffered from the differences in competitiveness - distortions reinforced by european policies in the commercial, monetary and economic fields that have weakened europe - the union wishes to allocate european funds to the fight against these disparities at the regional level. in addition, the report suggests that these funds should be used for the integration of the roma population, as the main lines of the european social fund suggest. we cannot fall into the trap of a european union which wants to be the doctor of the diseases it causes, which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it aims at european territorial integration and breaks the mechanisms of national solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr tamas deutsch, which takes stock of the implementation of cohesion policy in recent years. i welcome the adoption of this balanced text which highlights the role played by the structural funds in the face of the crisis and the fall in investment, while also pointing out the many challenges that remain to be met. the text adopted also reinforces our fight for a thorough simplification of regional policy, but also for a solution to the delays in payment and implementation in the european union's regional policy. small project promoters such as smes are the most vulnerable to unfulfilled commitments and to the often excessive administrative burden.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which makes it possible, among other things, to simplify the procedures for access to european funding. it is important to support all initiatives that lead to more jobs and more growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on 'investment for jobs and growth'. officially, cohesion policy is supposed to reduce regional disparities and competitiveness gaps in the european union. the rapporteur believes that this would be one of the only safeguards against the current economic crisis, characterised by the increase in social inequalities and the massive decline in public investment. the commission is acting as the fireman. it is responsible for widening the competitiveness gap, and at the same time advocates greater use of european funds to reduce these regional disparities. the rapporteur sometimes has good intentions, particularly in his desire to combat youth unemployment. but the solutions proposed are ridiculous or even counterproductive: they want to simplify procedures but strengthen administrations. we want to create synergies between services, but not pool their resources, etc.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this cohesion policy which goes against our ideas. the european cohesion policy is based on the distribution of a 'cohesion fund' to reduce disparities between regions, which is drawn directly from the contributions of the member states. the commission, which is the direct cause of these disparities in wealth and development, is therefore giving itself a good conscience by distributing more and more money. although there are some good ideas, such as the fight against youth unemployment, most of the solutions are pathetic or even counterproductive: simplification of procedures but with a strengthening of administrations, creation of synergies between services but without pooling resources... moreover, there are still few or no control mechanisms on the actual use of these funds, which is one of the major problems of this policy.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy, which is the eu's main investment policy and the european union's main instrument, aims to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities. this 6th report on the subject shows that during the period 2007-2013, the crisis exacerbated the disparities between regions, but that cohesion policy has helped to mitigate the effects. but the weak point of this policy is that these funds are conditional on compliance with the macroeconomic rules. the report timidly criticises this conditionality in a way that is highly questionable for the sovereignty of peoples. it rejects the idea that regions, localities and citizens can be punished for decisions taken by national governments in macroeconomic matters". the report also denounces the delays in payment which hamper the implementation of the programmes (approximately eur 25 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period). i abstain on this text to encourage awareness of the effects of austerity and cuts in public investment.
in writing. ‒ the european cohesion policy is based on the distribution of a 'cohesion fund' to reduce disparities between regions, which is drawn directly from the contributions of the member states. the commission, which is the direct cause of these disparities in wealth and development, is therefore giving itself a good conscience by distributing more and more money. although there are some good ideas, such as the fight against youth unemployment, most of the solutions are pathetic or even counterproductive: simplification of procedures but with a strengthening of administrations, creation of synergies between services but without pooling resources... moreover, there are still few or no control mechanisms on the actual use of these funds, which is one of the major problems of this policy. i voted against it.
in writing. this investment for jobs and growth report aims to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu. these cohesion policies aim to reduce regional disparities and the eu's competitiveness gaps. however, it is to be forgotten that these disparities are largely fuelled by the existence of a single currency, which leads to a divergence in productive capacities. in reality, under the guise of 'cohesion', this text aims to increase eu constraints on investment eligibility and to give greater prerogatives to large regional authorities to the detriment of nation states. the commission, which is responsible for widening the competitiveness gap, intends to increase the mobilisation of european funds to reduce regional disparities, thus playing the role of a pyromaniac fireman. finally, i object to the use of funds to promote roma integration. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on investment and growth. this text follows the publication by the european commission on progress in cohesion policy. it stressed the urgency of simplifying the procedures for accessing eu funding. the aim is to create growth levers to support employment in a context of crisis and declining investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the undeniable successes of cohesion policy, particularly with regard to the european social fund (esf), for which i am the permanent rapporteur in the european parliament. the esf has supported 68 million project participations and ensured that 5.7 million unemployed or inactive people find employment. the esf also reports that the number of cases of start-ups and selfemployed persons is over 400 000. the report stresses that the impact of these investments will be increasing in the coming years, as member states have until the end of 2015 to use these funds from the 2007-2013 programmes. the effort to achieve greater social, economic and territorial cohesion in all the member states of the european union must be continued.
in writing. ‒ this report on investment for jobs and growth aims to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu. these cohesion policies aim to reduce regional disparities and the eu's competitiveness gaps. however, it is to be forgotten that these disparities are largely fuelled by the existence of a single currency, which leads to a divergence in productive capacities. in reality, under the guise of 'cohesion', this text aims to increase eu constraints on investment eligibility and to give greater prerogatives to large regional authorities to the detriment of nation states. the commission, which is responsible for widening the competitiveness gap, intends to increase the mobilisation of european funds to reduce regional disparities, thus playing the role of the pyromaniac fireman. finally, i object to the use of funds to promote roma integration. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the european union's cohesion policy plays a key role in reducing regional inequalities and promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion within the union and between the different regions and states. given the importance of this instrument, the european parliament adopted an own-initiative report commenting on the progress made in cohesion policy but also pointing out areas for improvement. the text also stresses the need to simplify procedures for access to finance. i voted in favour of this report and i support this european policy, which is a key tool for local and regional development.
in writing. ‒ the philosophy of cohesion policy is contrary to the ideas we are advocating. the commission is acting as the fireman. it is responsible for widening the competitiveness gap, and at the same time advocates greater use of european funds to reduce these regional disparities. the rapporteur sometimes has good intentions, particularly in his desire to combat youth unemployment. but the solutions proposed are pathetic and even counterproductive: they want to simplify procedures but strengthen administrations; they want to create synergies between services but not pool their resources. finally, we strongly oppose the use of funds to promote the integration of roma. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report assesses the initiatives that have been tested to combat age discrimination. it introduces the concept of 'active ageing', which consists of improving the health and quality of life of older people by promoting their autonomy and participation in social life. to this end, they intend to develop the 'silver economy', a sector of activity that meets the needs of people over 50 years of age through tailored products and services. the text also encourages solidarity between generations and recalls the obligation to accompany the elderly with dignity. the report, disguised as a good intention, calls for the retirement of senior officials to be postponed. the sustainability of our pension system based on a system of distribution, a model of solidarity between generations, would be at stake. the problem of keeping seniors in the labour market for as long as possible is to postpone the problem. this will only increase tensions in the labour market. the social accounts must not be rebalanced at the cost of an explosion in the unemployment rate. finally, it is common sense that senior citizens should be able to enjoy the end of their lives to the full after so many years of work. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ 'active ageing' as promoted by the eu seems to be a thinly veiled way of fighting unemployment by keeping older people in employment. i voted against this report which seeks to give the commission new powers.
in writing. this report aims to promote active ageing by keeping older people in work for as long as possible by encouraging lifelong learning and devising new forms of relationship with employers, developing the silver economy, fighting age discrimination and reforming taxation policies on labour ... if the development of the silver economy really needs to be taken into account and encouraged because of the ageing of society and if there is considerable research potential in this sector (as japan and south korea have well understood), i will be vigilant as to the direction the commission wishes to give on this subject...
in writing. ‒ this report assesses the initiatives that have been tested to combat age discrimination. it introduces the concept of 'active ageing', which consists of improving the health and quality of life of older people by promoting their autonomy and participation in social life. to this end, they intend to develop the 'silver economy', a sector of activity that meets the needs of people over 50 years of age through tailored products and services. the text also encourages solidarity between generations and recalls the obligation to accompany the elderly with dignity. the report, disguised as a good intention, calls for the retirement of senior officials to be postponed. the sustainability of our pension system based on a system of distribution, a model of solidarity between generations, would be at stake. the problem of keeping seniors in the labour market for as long as possible is to postpone the problem. this will only increase tensions in the labour market. the social accounts must not be rebalanced at the cost of an explosion in the unemployment rate. finally, it is common sense that senior citizens should be able to enjoy the end of their lives to the full after so many years of work. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur's logic is that the pension problem would be solved by putting older people to work, which is just a disguised attempt to keep older people in employment in order to fight unemployment. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ following the european year 2012 for active ageing and solidarity between generations, this evaluation report takes a positive view of the year and indicates that the objectives have been achieved overall despite budget cuts. the rapporteur welcomes the two main outcomes of this year: the guiding principles on active ageing and solidarity and the active ageing index. the rapporteur encourages member states to make more systematic use of these principles and stresses the need for increased coordination between all stakeholders at different levels. the rapporteur also calls for better targeting of funds in the context of the european years. i believe that this report is balanced and that active ageing and solidarity between generations is a major social issue, so i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations in 2012 was an opportunity for member states to raise public awareness of the importance of this issue. that is why i voted in favour of this text, because it is necessary to fight against all discrimination and stereotypes. it is therefore necessary to continue to support initiatives in this direction.
in writing. ‒ this report assesses the initiatives that have been tested to combat age discrimination. it introduces the concept of 'active ageing', which consists of improving the health and quality of life of older people by promoting their autonomy and participation in social life. to this end, they intend to develop the 'silver economy', a sector of activity that meets the needs of people over 50 years of age through tailored products and services. the text also encourages solidarity between generations and recalls the obligation to accompany the elderly with dignity. the report, disguised as a good intention, calls for the retirement of senior officials to be postponed. the sustainability of our pension system based on a system of distribution, a model of solidarity between generations, would be at stake. the problem of keeping seniors in the labour market for as long as possible is to postpone the problem. this will only increase tensions in the labour market. the social accounts must not be rebalanced at the cost of an explosion in the unemployment rate. finally, it is common sense that senior citizens should be able to enjoy the end of their lives to the full after so many years of work. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague eduard kukan on active ageing and solidarity between generations. the year 2012 has been declared the 'european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations'. this was achieved through european events and national programmes, which the report takes stock of. i welcome the adoption of this report, which calls in particular for a study on demographic decline, the accessibility of technologies for ageing european societies and the protection of the autonomy of individuals. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. one of the great challenges of this century is to deal with the ageing of our populations in europe. i voted for this report because it considers that supporting ageing is an opportunity in economic terms, through the growth it can generate but also in social terms by strengthening the link between generations. our seniors therefore have a very important place in our societies and are a real asset.
in writing. ‒ as i had already done in the parliamentary committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of this report on the implementation, results and overall evaluation of the 2012 european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. we have seen, in a century, an almost doubling of life expectancy. it is up to us to decide whether the ageing population should be a boon or a burden to our society. if properly managed, population ageing can be a real driver of economic growth. it can also be a pillar of social cohesion through intergenerational exchange. but beware, the ageing population is also a responsibility. a company is often judged by how it treats its senior management. we must be honest, we are lagging far behind and there are profound differences. while we talk about the adaptations needed to meet future demographic trends, we are unable to respond to the current difficulties (health, public pensions, employment, etc.). the european union therefore has a great responsibility in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the report on the implementation, results and overall evaluation of the 2012 european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. the idea of 'active ageing' - improving the health and quality of life of older people for as long as possible by promoting their autonomy and participation in social life - is in itself a positive one. the retention of employment, which is one of these objectives, could be an economic necessity in the light of demographic changes in europe. however, the problem of pensions will not be solved by putting older people to work without thinking that at a certain age retirement is simply deserved. this proposal is ultimately just a clumsy and disguised way of fighting unemployment by keeping the elderly in employment.
in writing. ‒ i am voting out on this report which aims to keep older people in employment as long as possible. this report gives the illusion that making people work longer will solve the pension problem. this is a neglect of the fact that everyone, after working for many years, has the right to enjoy life and his family.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates 'active ageing' and tries to drown the fish by defining it as 'the economic, social, spiritual, cultural and civic activities of older people who can continue to contribute to their families, their peers, their community and their country'. the rapporteur does indeed insist on the maintenance of public pension schemes or on the need for rich and affordable public services. but it is the european commission's agenda that is being promoted. she talks about the "silver economy" for "developing the economy of the elderly in europe". the rapporteur therefore calls for 'facilitating the extension of working life for those who wish to do so' by 'reforming the pension system'. it is based on alarmist forecasts: by 2050 the average age of the eu population will be over 50. what are the health conditions according to social classes? and does this forecast take into account the recent arrival of many young migrants and their families? the rapporteur believes that the welfare of older people can only be achieved by maintaining their link with the world of work. vote against this war machine against the right to retire and this hypocritical blabber.
in writing. ‒ this report assesses the initiatives that have been tested to combat age discrimination. it introduces the concept of 'active ageing', which consists of improving the health and quality of life of older people by promoting their autonomy and participation in social life. to this end, they intend to develop the 'silver economy', a sector of activity that meets the needs of people over 50 years of age through tailored products and services. the text also encourages solidarity between generations and recalls the obligation to accompany the elderly with dignity. the report, disguised as a good intention, calls for the retirement of senior officials to be postponed. the sustainability of our pension system based on a system of distribution, a model of solidarity between generations, would be at stake. the problem of keeping seniors in the labour market for as long as possible is to postpone the problem. this will only increase tensions in the labour market. the social accounts must not be rebalanced at the cost of an explosion in the unemployment rate. finally, it is common sense that senior citizens should be able to enjoy the end of their lives to the full after so many years of work. i voted against it.
in writing. this report aims to promote active ageing by keeping older people in work for as long as possible by encouraging lifelong learning and devising new forms of relationship with employers, developing the silver economy, fighting age discrimination, or reforming tax policies on labour etc. however, i am opposed to this vision of ageing in which the concept of retirement is eliminated in order to maintain the employment rate of the elderly, to make the pension system sustainable, when other solutions, which are much simpler and fairer, are dismissed (making the tax system more progressive, allowing better account to be taken of the hardship, etc.). the increase is also a disguised attempt to delay the retirement age. this strategy will only lower the employment rate of the elderly and increase unemployment. i therefore voted against this text, considering it unnecessary for the eu to deal with this issue.
in writing. the year 2012, proclaimed the 'european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations', has given rise to european events and the development of guiding principles on active ageing and solidarity between generations. i voted in favour of this report which, following an evaluation of the 2012 achievements, asks the commission to publish country-specific recommendations in the field of employment, pensions, social inclusion and long-term care for older people. the aim is to tackle the remaining disparities between member states and to promote active ageing policies.
in writing. ‒ this report is entirely underpinned by the idea that we need to extend working life and leave workers in the labour market for as long as possible. this is obviously to compensate for the bankruptcy of pension schemes linked to the ageing of the population. but that's definitely not the right way. it is well known that unemployment affects the elderly very severely. what is the point of wanting to keep people working until they are 69 who often find themselves unemployed by the time they are 55? only a real revival of the economy and industry can make it possible to combat unemployment and finance the social system. i therefore vote against this report, which will be no more effective than a cautery on a wooden leg.
in writing. the year 2012 was proclaimed the european year of ageing and solidarity between generations. the aim of this theme was to raise awareness of the ageing population and the related issues, but also to draw the attention of states and citizens to the immense disparities that exist within the union. €5 million was allocated to promote these themes and organise activities across europe. the kukan report assesses this year's results. i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the strengths and weaknesses of this thematic year. to promote a certain degree of coherence in the union's activities, it is important that parliament follows upstream and downstream the projects or programmes concerned.
in writing. ‒ the idea of active ageing is to improve the health and quality of life of older people for as long as possible by promoting their autonomy and participation in social life. the retention of employment, which is one of these objectives, is in fact a real economic necessity in the light of demographic changes in europe. on the other hand, thinking that the pension problem will be solved by putting older people to work is just a disguised way of fighting unemployment by keeping older people in work as long as possible. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the 2011 white paper on transport contains many negative measures. under false pretexts such as global warming, this report calls on the commission to intervene in road taxation, advocates an increase in european funds allocated to transport policy and one of the stated objectives is to strengthen the interventionism of the european union in urban transport. in addition, the report repeatedly recommends more punishments and more severity for motorists who commit offences. it borders on persecution. it is particularly scandalous and unfair when we know that real offenders and criminals benefit from a very lax judicial system, particularly in france. as for the passages on global warming, their ridiculous alarmism justifies the promotion of walking, cycling and gender-disaggregated modes of transport as well as the adoption of new regulations against carbon-emitting modes of transport. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which also wants to further widen the commission's areas of competence.
in writing. this 2011 white paper on transport prepares the european transport area for the future (post-oil, climate change) and must make the transport system competitive and sustainable while ensuring a more efficient use of resources. the report further explains that the analysis of the timeliness of the airline shows that the airline industry is very late. it requires the member states to apply the provisions already adopted and is still binding on them as a supranational entity. it envisages a doubling of urban transport in the coming years, increasing the saturation of networks. to this end, the report calls for accelerated integration, notably in air transport, and for greater eu intervention in urban transport. of course, i am opposed to increasing the eu's influence in this sector, even though i believe that it is all the more necessary to develop public transport into quality public services, which is the exact opposite of the commission's ultra-liberal vision. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report lays the foundations for the strategy that the european institutions will adopt in the transport sector, which represents 5% of the eu's gdp and 10 million direct or indirect jobs. their aim is to develop the trans-european network and to eliminate the disparities between the centre and the periphery, while promoting the transition to more environmentally friendly transport and less dependence on fossil fuels. the eu is also committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2050. the funding of these projects would be based on public/private partnerships. how often their aims are praiseworthy but their methods less so. they want to increase the financial allocations for the implementation of transnational transport and to strengthen european competences so that they can better manage these projects and better support the local authorities, which are often in charge of these issues. we are opposed to any transfer of sovereignty and any increase in the eu budget. these projects are interesting but do not require the commission's intervention and may be based on bilateral relations. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is part of a year-end review and a mid-term review of the white paper on transport. while the commission presented in 2011 ambitious targets by 2020/30 and 2050 to establish a competitive transport system with the aim of increasing mobility, transport remains a complex system requiring coordinated intervention with national, regional and local levels of government. the report rightly proposes to streamline the measures implemented by regularly assessing their effectiveness and advocates the use of the most energy-efficient and sustainable modes of transport. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. environment and growth are the main points of this white paper. parliament supported the commission's ambitious project. rationalisation, sustainability and reducing carbon emissions are the future for a more environmentally conscious europe that sees in this new economy an opportunity for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ in this vote, i reiterated my opposition to the widespread use of mega-trucks, which can be up to 25 metres long and weigh up to 60 tonnes. i also voted against a proposal to regulate competitive tendering for public service contracts. i also wanted to support the issue of sustainable transport infrastructure and the completion of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) through the support of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the ten-t, which is at the heart of the union's infrastructure policy, aims to complete the missing links between the transport networks of the member states, to remove bottlenecks and to overcome technical obstacles. a number of sections should be eligible for the efsi, such as the limoges poitiers lng line, which will bring a large flow of passengers to southern atlantic europe and provide a continuous and efficient east-west european railway route. with the efsi, there is scope for devising innovative solutions to finance major structural works in the regions, leading to development for the future.
in writing. ‒ the 2011 white paper on transport is an appeal for greater liberalisation of the european area and for the opening up of transport networks to competition. the union is called upon to intervene more in areas of spatial planning, network management and structures for airport, rail and port services. this is again an interference by the union in the missions of the member states and an ultra-liberal impulse which i cannot support. i therefore voted against this report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it advocates greater integration of transport policies at the expense of the role of the states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to make all modes of transport in europe more efficient, cleaner, safer and more reliable. with an improved european transport system we could, for example, considerably reduce europe's dependence on oil imports. this dependence is making us geopolitically vulnerable, as we are seeing with the crisis in russia. in addition, a better european transport system can reduce transport-related carbon emissions by 60% by 2050 and thus support more sustainable european mobility.
in writing. ‒ the 2011 white paper on transport contains many negative measures. under false pretexts such as global warming, this report calls on the commission to intervene in road taxation and advocates an increase in european funds allocated to transport policy. one of the stated objectives is to strengthen the european union's interventionism in urban transport. in addition, the report repeatedly recommends more punishments and more severity for motorists who commit offences. it borders on persecution. it is particularly scandalous and unfair when we know that real offenders and criminals benefit from a very lax judicial system, particularly in france. as for the passages on global warming, their ridiculous alarmism justifies the promotion of walking, cycling and gender-disaggregated modes of transport as well as the adoption of new regulations against carbon-emitting modes of transport. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out the main transport issues for the coming years. we need to find less energy-intensive and cleaner modes of transport to meet the recommendations of the european commission, which in its white paper presented its strategy for a competitive transport system that will aim to increase mobility, but also to promote growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport. the report calls for an acceleration of european integration, particularly in the air transport sector, and for even greater union intervention in urban transport. the front national members, who are in favour of maintaining the principle of subsidiarity, will continue to oppose this.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report which calls for an acceleration of european integration in the field of transport. the text calls for the commission to have more powers in the field of urban transport, multimodal inter-urban transport and long-distance travel. this would strengthen the commission's powers and deprive member states of their sovereignty in transport policy.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to carry out a mid-term review of the white paper with a view to assessing the progress made since 2011 and to propose further measures to achieve its objectives. the objectives focus mainly on the opening up of markets and the full liberalisation of air, river, road and maritime transport. with the consequences of the abolition of public services and the increase in transport prices, all under the umbrella of the concept of "modal transfer". the european commission has added some greening elements to take account of environmental requirements, but it is not the case at all. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the 2011 white paper on transport contains many negative measures. under false pretexts such as global warming, this report calls on the commission to intervene in road taxation and advocates an increase in european funds allocated to transport policy. one of the stated objectives is to strengthen the european union's interventionism in urban transport. in addition, the report repeatedly recommends more punishments and more severity for motorists who commit offences. it borders on persecution. it is particularly scandalous and unfair when we know that real offenders and criminals benefit from a very lax judicial system, particularly in france. as for the passages on global warming, their ridiculous alarmism justifies the promotion of walking, cycling and gender-disaggregated modes of transport as well as the adoption of new regulations against carbon-emitting modes of transport. for all these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. this 2011 white paper on transport prepares the european transport area for the future (post-oil, climate change) and makes the transport system competitive and sustainable while ensuring a more efficient use of resources. the report further explains that the analysis of the timeliness of the airline shows that the airline industry is very late. it requires the member states to apply the provisions already adopted. it envisages a doubling of urban transport in the coming years, increasing the saturation of networks. to this end, the report calls for accelerated integration, notably in air transport, and for greater eu intervention in urban transport. of course, i am opposed to increasing the eu's influence in this area. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport. transport is a driver of the european economy, employing almost 10 million people and accounting for around 5% of gdp. the report stresses that it is essential that companies in this sector continue to develop, invest and renew themselves in order to maintain their technological supremacy at the global level. it is about maintaining and creating jobs in a context of strong international competition.
in writing. ‒ this 2011 white paper on transport prepares the european transport area for the future (post-oil, climate change) and makes the transport system competitive and sustainable while ensuring a more efficient use of resources. the report further explains that the analysis of the timeliness of the airline shows that the airline industry is very late. it requires the member states to apply the provisions already adopted. it envisages a doubling of urban transport in the coming years, increasing the saturation of networks. to this end, the report calls for accelerated integration, notably in air transport, and for greater eu intervention in urban transport. of course, i am opposed to any increase in the eu's influence in this sector. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ transport policy is a crucial issue for the development of territories and trade within the union. the free movement of goods and citizens within the union reinforces the strategic importance of transport and the need for an ambitious, coherent and coordinated european transport policy. in this context, the european commission presented a white paper on transport in 2011. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of this white paper. the text adopted reiterates parliament's support for the effective implementation of the measures announced in the white paper. the text also calls on the commission to be realistic and effective in order to modernise the transport system in the union. i support in particular the measures to restore the competitiveness of the airline industry, which is in great danger in europe.
in writing. ‒ meps adopted the report on the revision of the european transport white paper today. the report aims to provide an overview of the ten objectives of the white paper adopted in 2011 and to provide a basis for proposals to influence future european transport policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. on the climate front, i welcome the fact that this report calls on the commission to include a 40% reduction in co2 emissions from transport by 2030 in the climate and energy package to be adopted during this parliamentary term. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. i voted in favour of the report, but i voted against three paragraphs calling for the reopening of the mega-truck directive and the liberalisation of public service contracts for rail and port services.
in writing. ‒ the transport sector is a complex system based on the interaction between infrastructure, vehicles, information technology, rules and behaviour. all these elements must form part of a common and long-term vision. i voted in favour of this report which stresses that the mid-term review of the white paper on transport must be supplemented by intermediate objectives for the coming years. the sector has a high potential for profitability. the list of initiatives and action points proposed in the white paper should be regularly adapted and supplemented, and evaluated on their effectiveness in achieving the long-term objectives.
in writing. ‒ i opposed, with my colleagues from the french and british socialist delegations, the paragraphs in the report which favoured the liberalisation of port services, the reopening of the mega-truck directive and the implementation of rail liberalisation through the 4th railway package. unfortunately, they won the majority. nevertheless, this text had its strengths and ambitions for sustainable transport. by proposing the addition of a new 40% target for reducing co2 emissions from transport by 2030, the revision of the new vehicle emissions regulation to include heavy goods vehicles, and the revision of the eurovignette directive to include greener taxation, the text responds to the climate emergency. on the social front, the report calls on the commission to tackle the dumping practices in the sector. emphasising the importance of public transport for social inclusion and territorial cohesion, it sets a target of doubling its use by 2030... all positive elements that i welcome and which lay a solid foundation for addressing the paris conference.
in writing. ‒ the white paper lists the initiatives for a single european area: ‒ a genuine internal market for rail services: ‒ implementation of the single european sky: ‒ capacity and quality of airports: ‒ blue belt: ‒ maritime and port market access: ‒ a framework for inland navigation: ‒ road freight transport: ‒ multimodal freight transport: online freight: this report shows an acceleration of integration in the transport sectors, in particular air transport. i reject the increased interventionism of the european union in the urban transport policies of the member states. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i deeply regret that a very large majority of the european parliament voted for this report on the commission's 2011 white paper on transport, which calls for the completion of the liberalisation of all modes of transport. the report, while containing positive aspects in terms of co2 reduction, welcomes the implementation of the commission's 2011 white paper, the objectives of which are clear: completion of the high-speed rail network mainly by private companies or consortia, which means liberalisation of rail passenger transport but also poses a problem of access to rail transport due to the price of rail passenger transport, liberalisation of rail freight the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the document also calls for the liberalisation of air transport to be completed. our group will continue to fight against the liberalization of transport and we will continue to fight in our respective countries and at european level alongside trade unionists to defend the public service and transport accessible to all.
in writing. ‒ another report that is based on gender ideology and believes in the virtues of "positive" discrimination.
in writing. this report on women's scientific and academic careers is an example of a hollow text, but it contains 52 articles. the desire to teach gender equality in higher education will also be maintained. this text is not empowering for women as they are only seen through gender or positive discrimination while notions of merit or freedom of choice are totally absent from the report. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ in its motion for a resolution, the european parliament commits to ensuring gender equality in academic posts and scientific careers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. their solution is to encourage affirmative action, thus denying women's personal aspirations and professional skills. in addition, the text is composed of 52 meaningless articles. it is also worth noting that they wish to teach gender equality even in higher education. at no point does this text promote meritocracy. the objectives of this proposal are the opposite of what i consider to be equality between men and women: the acceptance of complementarity through the recognition of the differences and desires of each person. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ equality between men and women is fundamental. we must ensure that women have the same opportunities as men to pursue the careers of their choice. for this reason, it is important to guarantee women the same access to scientific and academic careers as men. the report finds that women often face various difficulties in their careers, such as gender stereotypes and discrimination in relation to motherhood. it is essential to remove these obstacles to women's professional development. i voted in favour of this report which calls on the commission and the member states to take concrete action in this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution because its main objective is to feminize entire sectors to weigh down on wages, through an influx of 'human capital', and to promote positive discrimination.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report analyses the barriers and constraints, both conscious and unconscious, faced by women in their academic and scientific careers. these barriers are numerous and complex, as they are based on a variety of factors. the report proposes that action be taken by the commission and the member states within the framework of the european research area (era) and the specific programme horizon 2020 to strengthen equality between men and women in universities and in the scientific world. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i supported this text which calls for greater equality between men and women in the scientific world. the progress made in recent years is not yet sufficient. promotion strategies and support with funds such as the horizon 2020 programme are still needed, both to strengthen equality in academia and the scientific world and in the world of work.
in writing. ‒ the fact that women are fewer than men in scientific and academic positions is not a reason to consider that women are the targets of well-established and organised discrimination in the european union. this report is built on a victim analysis which advocates affirmative action (which even the united states is now turning away from) and promotes 'gender equality' from an egalitarian and sex-difference-denying perspective. this promotion should also be disseminated in the university curriculum. the report also suggests that the practice of affirmative action be extended beyond women to include sexual orientation minorities, lgbti groups, and immigrant or immigrant women, particularly from outside europe. i have been fighting for the cause of women for many years, in france and in europe, but this report does not shed any light on the struggle of women, on the contrary, it misrepresents it by associating it with communitarian and ideological demands that tarnish our civilization. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not put forward the possibility for women to choose and the complementarity between men and women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague elissavet vozemberg on the scientific and academic careers of women. the objective of combating glass ceilings, which still affect too many women, could only be supported by me. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on women's scientific and academic careers and glass ceilings. this text is yet another call for positive discrimination which denies the personal aspirations of women. paragraph 48 in particular encourages affirmative action in university decision-making bodies. paragraph 35 wants to make the funding of universities conditional on gender equality plans. the report also shows a europeanist leadership, as in paragraph 25, which calls for a recommendation from the commission to the member states with guidelines.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it seeks to increase positive discrimination in favour of women in universities. i'm in favor of gender equality and meritocracy, not this kind of discrimination. women are capable of making it on their own.
in writing. ‒ the report looks at the invisible, prejudiced barriers that prevent women from accessing scientific and academic careers. to combat these glass ceilings, it proposes positive discrimination measures such as the creation of gender equality schemes as a precondition for access to public funding in these largely male-dominated fields. it calls for a campaign to raise awareness of the stereotypes faced by both men and women. the report also calls on states to ensure genuine paternity leave to ensure work/life balance and career progression for women. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the harmonization of maternity leave in europe, which has been blocked by both the member states and the commission. a report that does not make waves and carefully avoids talking about the context of the "economic crisis", affecting women in the first place. i am voting in favour, however, to underline the importance of gender issues in all policy and particularly in the research community.
in writing. this report on women's scientific and academic careers is an example of a 52-article, hollow text. however, there is a desire to teach gender equality even in higher education. in the end, this text demeans women, since they are seen only through the lens of gender or positive discrimination, when notions of merit or freedom of choice are absent. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which calls for support for women's scientific and academic careers. the report recalls that women are underrepresented in most scientific and engineering fields, particularly at the top levels of management, even in sectors where they are in the majority, such as education. it called on the commission, the member states and the relevant stakeholders to strengthen initiatives and programmes to encourage women to pursue scientific and academic careers. it provides in particular mentoring and networking programmes and calls for support for individual careers of women researchers and their career advancement at the highest levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague elissavet vozembert on 'women's scientific and academic careers and glass ceilings'. the draft report analyses the barriers and conscious and unconscious biases faced by women in their academic and scientific careers. these barriers are numerous and complex, as they are based on various factors, such as discrimination due to stereotypes, but also due to obligations related to motherhood and family, preventing women from pursuing the professional careers they would like to pursue. the report proposes that action be taken by the commission and the member states within the framework of the european research area (era) and the specific programme horizon 2020 to strengthen equality between men and women in universities and in the scientific world.
in writing. this report analyses the invisible, unjustified obstacles which still prevent women from accessing the same scientific and academic careers as men. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential to always strengthen positive discrimination measures supporting the involvement of women in scientific and academic careers. the report rightly calls for greater eu involvement in breaking down the glass ceilings, through campaigns to combat stereotypes and through measures to improve the work-life balance, for example by introducing paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to improve the academic careers of women, but its author seems to think that the best way to achieve this would be through the use of head-butting. if some problems of discrimination are real and if some difficulties are undeniable, incentives to gender education will not solve them. the fight against discrimination and positive discrimination are increasingly confining individuals to different hierarchical categories instead of allowing them to work together as equals. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ there is still some discrimination against women in scientific and academic circles. recalling that equality between women and men is one of the union's fundamental principles, parliament adopted a report encouraging the member states and the union to take appropriate measures to improve the situation. i voted in favour of this report and i stress the importance of promoting equality between women and men. however, i would like to stress that some competences or areas of action are more within the competence of the member states than the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the scientific and academic careers of women. women are underrepresented in most scientific and engineering fields and in positions of responsibility and at senior levels. the vozemberg report calls on the commission, like the member states, to implement awareness campaigns and programmes and initiatives to tackle cultural barriers to women's participation in science. it also advocates the development of solutions to reconcile family and working life, for example by proposing the recognition of paternity leave. it is also proposed to take measures and initiatives to promote a better representation of women in positions of responsibility and to encourage them to choose scientific careers. the european parliament's report is addressed to the commission and the member states, but also to all those involved in academia, the media and the business world, with a view to breaking down stereotypes and moving towards genuine gender equality.
in writing. ‒ at no point does this text promote noble values such as merit or freedom of choice. its objectives are opposed to our perception of what gender equality should be: the acceptance of complementarity through the recognition of differences and the wishes of each person. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the rodriguez report aims to subject european girls and young people to the dominant ideology of the union through the school. the text aims to make "sexual education compulsory for all primary school pupils" (from the age of six). these are positions which are not in the best interests of our young people and of society as a whole. they are as illegitimate as they are harmful. on the one hand, they run counter to the principle of subsidiarity and on the other, they undermine the traditional values on which our civilization has been built for centuries. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ another very dangerous report promoting gender ideology and therefore lgbti communitarian claims. and once again the rapporteur pretends not to know that almost all of his proposals are not the responsibility of the european union.
in writing. this report on the empowerment of girls through education in the eu aims primarily at conditioning young people in the eu member states to accept minorities through the school system. the report proposes, among other things, to develop specific programmes for roma girls, to make sexuality education compulsory for all pupils from primary school, or to include objective information on lgbti issues in school curricula. the report's basic idea is that 'gender stereotypes' must be ended in order to allow girls to access all professions, and also to end all 'discrimination' against women. in this connection, the school must not confine itself to instruction: it must educate, and in this case modify, the whole human person. i condemn this report for the lack of a legal basis and the infringements of 'freedom of thought, freedom of expression, privacy' and the right of parents to be the primary educators of their children. in conclusion, education is not a matter for the union, and i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the empowerment of girls through education in the eu because it aims to condition young europeans to accept minorities through schooling. i cannot support this text on legal (education is not a matter for the union) and ideological issues.
in writing. ‒ first of all, it should be stressed that the european union has no competence in the field of education. parliament should not even be involved in this matter. it is also not appropriate to want to subject our young people to the dominant europeanist ideology and to introduce subjects on sexuality and gender into school curricula. school is a place of imparting knowledge, not sexual education. the text, which is being put to the vote in parliament, proposes that we develop specific programmes for roma girls, make sex education compulsory for all primary school pupils (even for children aged 6), include information on lgbti issues in school curricula and monitor the implementation of equality programmes in close collaboration with gender experts, which imposes external control on the education systems of the member states. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by liliana rodrigues on the empowerment of young girls through education in the union, whose main objectives - ending gender stereotypes and bridging the gap between women's education and their professional development - seem to me to be essential. however, i am reserved about the mandatory introduction of sex education programmes from primary school.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution because it advocates the introduction into the education system of mechanisms to ensure that all young people in europe are subject to the dominant ideology of the union. the enl group was the only one to table an amendment, which also caused great tension with the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report calls for the implementation of gender equality at all levels of the education system as a solution to inequalities in access and achievement between boys and girls. although this report pursues an objective which i share, it is motivated by ideological objectives, the rapporteur's proposals do indeed encroach on the powers of the states in the field of education. in view of this controversial report, which goes beyond the scope of action of the european union, i decided to abstain from voting, but i consider that inequalities in the education system are indeed unfair discrimination between people and must be fought against.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on this resolution. the rodrigues report is a step forward for equality between men and women, it opens up free and non-discriminatory education more widely. however, i remain convinced that the development of quality education requires respect for the competences of the member states in certain areas, particularly in relation to education on ethical issues or sexual rights.
in writing. - the substance of this report is most terrifying. we are on the verge of an intellectual clash and the establishment of a single thinking throughout the union. all the elements of the destruction of our societies are combined: communitarianism, through special programmes for roma youth; gender theory erected as a tool to control the implementation of "equality programmes" and whose respect will even be rewarded with a prize for establishments; the introduction of lgbti demands into schools, whereas the primary missions of schools are to teach reading, writing, counting and passing on our heritage. even more disturbing and worthy of the saddest pages of the best of worlds, this report proposes sex education in primary schools! in addition to the fact that these questions are not at all within the competence of the union, and that they are proof of the intellectual dictates that weigh on the member states, these demands and proposals illustrate the tragedy of a political class that is a thousand miles from reality and committed against our civilization, which is why i voted against this text.
in writing. - not a session without her gender report. the worst thing this time is the rodrigues report. i have had the opportunity to say this dozens of times here: neither the family nor educational programmes are the responsibility of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. like its predecessors, the rodrigues report itself conveys the worst stereotypes about women, eternal victims, eternal dominated, eternal discriminated against by a macho society perpetuating outdated patterns. is there any discussion of the fate of women in the areas controlled by daesh? in saudi arabia? no, we are talking about the european union as a whole in 2015. i would advise mrs rodrigues, in order to have a clear view of the real causes of the most problematic educational situations in europe, to try herself a course on the gender dimension and tolerance in a college in a sensitive district of france. if we fail to leave her mentally and physically intact, perhaps this will put her back in touch with the reality that thousands of teachers and their female students unfortunately live with every day. and some real issues.
in writing. ‒ discrimination against women is unfortunately still a reality. although equality is enshrined in law, implementation is slow: equal work, pay gaps, many young girls discouraged from entering certain careers and housework still predominantly women's responsibility. it is a legal and economic issue: some of the available talent is wasted. that is why i voted in favour of the rodrigues report on the empowerment of young girls through education in the european union. whatever one may think of the term "gender", the principle of gender equality deserves to be reaffirmed: in 2015, it is high time that it becomes effective. in combating stereotypes and archaism, education is one of the tools to achieve this.
in writing. while 13 million women are victims of physical violence in the eu, the european parliament cannot remain silent on this painful reality. that is why i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my colleague, mrs rodrigues, on the empowerment of young girls through education in the eu, which calls in particular on the european commission to launch the procedure for the union's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence as soon as possible. it is about saying that we must join forces and resources to fight gender stereotypes that have a negative impact on the personal and professional development of children. it is also about encouraging girls and boys to take an equal interest in all school subjects, beyond gender stereotypes; to teach equality, dignity and self-esteem to train individuals capable of making independent choices; to educate boys and girls in the areas of relationships, affective and sexual life through scientifically based and age-appropriate programmes; the commission's proposal is to promote the emancipation of girls in accordance with the principle of the free disposal of their bodies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the rodrigues report, which seeks to subject european girls and young people to the dominant ideology of the union through schooling. the text aims to make "sexual education compulsory for all primary school pupils" (from the age of six). these are positions which are not in the best interests of our young people and of society as a whole. they are as illegitimate as they are harmful. on the one hand, they run counter to the principle of subsidiarity and on the other, they undermine the traditional values on which our civilization has been built for centuries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague liliana rodrigues on the empowerment of young girls through education. the report was not well drafted, but the general objective of the text, namely the fight against stereotypes and greater equality between men and women through education, was certainly supported by me. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rodrigues report entitled 'empowering girls through education in the european union'. without denying the role of parents as the primary educators of children, i think it is important to stress that investing in education, as this report suggests, is probably the best way to promote equality between men and women, whether at school, in the workplace or in the private sphere. on the other hand, like my colleagues in the epp group, i did not support the ideological delusions of the left with my votes, which tended to deny the member states the exercise of powers which are theirs by right, under the principle of subsidiarity. however, such considerations must not cloud our judgment or lead us to deviate from our credo: the fight against discrimination and for equality between men and women is a fundamental commitment of the epp group, since it is a question of promoting respect for fundamental rights and european values, which were originally enshrined in the founding project.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the empowerment of girls through education in the european union, because education is not a matter for the european union. this directive does not respect the principle of subsidiarity. the enl group tabled an alternative resolution in the form of an amendment referring the commission, parliament and the femm committee to their competences under the treaties, but unfortunately this argument was not adopted.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it is a crazy plea for the integration of 'gender issues' in school textbooks, and for the compulsory teaching of sexuality in primary schools! furthermore, i would point out that education is not a matter for the european union.
in writing. ‒ here is a report that paints a good picture of the impact of gender stereotypes on the orientation of young girls and proposes a number of solutions to empower them. it stresses first of all that 'universal, compulsory and free education is an essential condition for guaranteeing equal opportunities for men and women', particularly those from disadvantaged backgrounds. he denounced budget cuts and austerity policies. the report stresses the need to include gender equality, sexuality and gender stereotypes in school curricula, particularly in the media and advertising. it also calls for the role of women in history to be highlighted and for the fight against discrimination against lgbti people to be promoted. the access of women to male-dominated professions and fields such as science, engineering, technology and mathematics should be promoted and encouraged. in order to help reconcile family and working life, the report particularly emphasises the development of public daycare networks. i am of course in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to subject european girls and young people to the dominant ideology of the eu through schooling. the text aims to make "sexual education compulsory for all primary school pupils" (from the age of six). these are positions which are not in the best interests of our young people and of society as a whole. they are as illegitimate as they are harmful. on the one hand, they run counter to the principle of subsidiarity and on the other, they undermine the traditional values on which our civilization has been built for centuries. i voted against it.
in writing. this report on the empowerment of girls through education in the union aims primarily at conditioning young people in the member states of the union to accept minorities through the school system. the commission is also proposing to develop specific programmes for roma girls, make sexuality education compulsory for all pupils from primary school, and include objective information on lgbti issues in school curricula. this text has the merit of revealing (without his knowledge) the problems posed by the integration of minorities following the massive immigration experienced by european countries. but rather than advocating assimilation, the text prefers to "educate" the "native populations", asking them to show tolerance. finally, as education is not a matter for the eu, i voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the empowerment of young girls in the european union. it recalls that education is a key instrument to combat stereotypes and to make progress towards greater equality between men and women, which i support. it proposes measures to combat violence against women and reduce inequalities in education. of the 17 percent of adults worldwide who cannot read or write, two thirds are women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by liliana rodrigues, despite some imperfections in the text which i decided to vote against. the rodrigues report points out that despite significant progress in equal access to education and achievement, differences between boys and girls persist. education should be seen as a means of correcting inequalities between boys and girls and gender stereotypes, a tool for empowering young girls and women, and a driving force for the economy. the report calls for the implementation of gender equality at all levels of the education system.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because i agree with the need to combat gender inequalities through education. i believe it is right to promote in the member states the paramount importance of ensuring universal, compulsory and free education. this must be achieved by establishing quality public education as a universal necessity. as this report points out, i regret the cuts in education budgets, which are contributing to the increase in inequalities.
in writing. ‒ the report is full of paradoxes: it wants the european union to focus on improving girls' education in its member states, whereas girls already have higher education qualifications than boys and experience fewer difficulties in school, and whereas education is not a matter for the union. it is therefore a question of violating the sovereignty of states and the principle of subsidiarity in order to solve a problem which simply does not exist. the problem of illiteracy, which affects boys more than girls, seems to me to be of far greater urgency and i do not think that it is by increasing the number of courses on the concept of gender that we are going to solve it. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ today, there are still some disparities within the union in the integration of girls into education and university systems. some groups of young girls are still discriminated against and do not have the same access to education as young boys. the european parliament adopted a report on progress to be made in empowering young people through education. i wish to abstain on this report because i believe that the powers concerned fall under the principle of subsidiarity and are more the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ gender inequalities persist in all the countries of the european union. despite the displeasure of conservatives and reactionaries denouncing a hypothetical "theory" of gender, all credible sociological studies show that these inequalities are built up from an early age, through differential education between girls and boys. taking this reality into account, the rodrigues report aims to implement and develop an education that emancipates girls, which would counteract the internalization of stereotypes, which are the basis of inequalities. to this end, it advocates action at all levels of education, through training of teachers and school staff, the enhancement of women's place in school curricula or the implementation of gender equality assessment mechanisms. the report also proposes the creation of a prize for institutions that are good at gender equality. i therefore support this report because, contrary to what the conservatives have claimed, this is not the responsibility of the states alone. 'equality between men and women must be ensured in all areas' states article 23 of the european union's declaration of fundamental rights: it is time to act now!
in writing. ‒ the main purpose of this text is to condition young europeans to accept minorities through the school system. this "emancipation" through school and the need to keep girls in school are never more than the side effects of mass immigration, importing customs and values that are not ours, on the one hand, and the power of lgbti lobbies on the other. education is not a matter for the union, so we proposed an alternative resolution on two issues: the call for subsidiarity and the absence of eu competence on education; the absence of a real issue since the schooling of girls in europe is not a problem as shown by the h/f distribution of higher education graduates. it is obvious that i could not support this text, both on legal (non-eu) and ideological issues. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ a real attack on switzerland's sovereignty, this report follows the referendum held on 9 february 2014, calling for the adoption of a law "against mass immigration". the swiss people have very clearly voted in favour of this bill, but the european union, in retaliation, has rejected the swiss confederation's request to renegotiate the ftaa (free movement of persons agreement), an essential pillar of the single market. the rapporteur is shockingly ignorant of the will of the people, as the european union is accustomed to doing. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain foodstuffs. contrary to the values of the sovereignty of the european nations defended by our group in the european parliament, i spoke against this report.
in writing. ‒ the vote on a law against mass immigration was held in switzerland on 9 february 2014. the swiss people voted overwhelmingly in favour of this law. the european union wants to take retaliatory measures following this vote and wants to reject the swiss request to renegotiate the agreement on the free movement of persons. the rapporteur clearly calls for pressure to be brought to bear on the swiss authorities, thus showing his contempt for the decision taken by the swiss people. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. "how dare switzerland consult its people and respect their decision?" this is what is causing the anger and delirium of the so-called democrats who are currently presiding over the destinies of the eu...i of course voted against this scandalous text which is due to a german mp from the cdu, the "christian-democratic" party of mrs merkel.
in writing. this report follows the referendum held in switzerland on 9 february 2014 calling for the adoption of a law "against mass immigration" and where the swiss people had very clearly voted in favour of this bill. but the right-thinking technocrats of the european union, unable to tolerate democracy being used against the treaties, rejected the swiss confederation's request to renegotiate the agreement on the free movement of persons. this report is an attack on the sovereignty and the will of the swiss people. the rapporteur, mr schwab, is clearly calling for pressure to be put on the swiss authorities to force them to revise their copy. it is intolerable for the eu to interfere in the policies of the member states, but it is even more intolerable for it to want to dictate its choices to other non-member states. however, it seems that europe likes to intervene everywhere in the world to spread its "good word" which it often has difficulty applying itself, especially in terms of respect for democracy and the people. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ on 9 february 2014, switzerland held a referendum on mass immigration. the initiative proposed to set annual quotas according to the needs of their economies while reaffirming the principle of national preference. the swiss voted overwhelmingly in favour of the text. the european union subsequently rejected switzerland's request to renegotiate the agreement on the free movement of persons (fta), thus flouting the will of the swiss people. in the same vein, this report seeks to put pressure on the swiss government to reverse the measures envisaged in the referendum. we are shocked by the contempt for democracy shown by the european institutions. i therefore voted against this scandalous report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it represents a real attack on the sovereignty of switzerland, whose people have wanted to fight against mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to remove obstacles to the implementation of the internal market between the european economic area (eea) and switzerland, which relate in particular to the restrictions on the free movement of persons in switzerland and to the respect of the principle of reciprocity and fairness in their use of the single market. the rapporteur recalls that the eea agreement is an essential element of economic growth and that it is the most ambitious instrument for extending the single market to third countries. the text nevertheless remains firm on the ongoing negotiations with switzerland on the issue of the february 2014 vote, which calls into question freedom of movement within the internal market. i share the view that switzerland cannot enjoy a share of the benefits of the european internal market without accepting the essential rules of the market, a view shared by this report, and i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ despite the 2014 referendum against mass immigration, in which the free and sovereign swiss people expressed their refusal to accept the massive migration flows that are passing through europe, which has become a cesspool, the european union refused to renegotiate the agreement on the free movement of persons. the objective is clear: to strengthen the single market and to do away with one of the last islands of popular sovereignty on the european continent. the tone of the report presented to us is not worthy of a representation that claims to be democratic and denotes the ideological violence that is rampant in the european union and the contempt for sovereign peoples. in keeping with the wish to listen to my fellow citizens and brothers in europe and convinced that common sense will bring peace to our continent for a europe of nations and freedoms, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ following the referendum on 9 february 2014 in switzerland on a law against mass immigration, the european union wants to use retaliatory measures. it rejects the swiss request to renegotiate the agreement on the free movement of persons. the rapporteur is clearly calling for pressure to be put on the swiss authorities and is denying the will of the people, which was expressed in the referendum. i am a staunch supporter of estonian sovereignty and voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which reminds switzerland of its obligations under the partnership agreement with the european union on free movement (signed in 1999 and in force since 2002). switzerland must respect its international commitments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on 'eea-switzerland: obstacles to the full implementation of the internal market'. a real attack on switzerland's sovereignty, this report follows the referendum held by switzerland on february 9, 2014, calling for the adoption of a law "against mass immigration". the swiss people have very clearly voted in favour of this bill, but the european union, in a very democratic way and as a retaliatory measure, has rejected the request of the swiss confederation to renegotiate the ftaa (agreement on the free movement of persons), an essential pillar of the single market. the rapporteur is shockingly ignorant of the will of the people, as the european union is accustomed to doing. mr schwab is clearly calling for pressure to be put on the swiss authorities to force them to revise their copy and prevent them from putting into practice for too long what they were elected to do. what arrogance !
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is a scandalous text that dares to reproach switzerland for having organised a referendum on immigration. the swiss have democratically decided to oppose any further immigration and the european parliament has no need to criticize their choice. he should be thinking about the lesson of democracy that switzerland has taught him!
in writing. - i voted against this report! this aberrant report goes against the freedom of people to express themselves democratically. on 9 february 2014, switzerland voted in a referendum on mass immigration: its people voted in favour of immigration quotas and checks. the european union strongly opposes this outcome, which it considers to be contrary to the principle of free movement of persons. the report proposes to put pressure on the swiss authorities to force them to change their mind and/or disregard the result of this referendum. it seems necessary to recall that switzerland is not part of the eu and therefore has no reason to subject it to the requirements of brussels. with this scandalous text, the eu is once again showing its contempt for democracy.
in writing. ‒ the report argues that 'a single market is needed (...) to stimulate growth and competitiveness and create new jobs in order to revitalise the european economy'. it states that for effective implementation, single market legislation must be transposed into the member states of the european union, the states of the european economic area and the states of the european free trade association. however, the swiss referendum of 2014 'against mass immigration' and the decisions taken on 11 february 2015 by the swiss federal council go against the obligations arising from the agreement on the free movement of persons (alcp), which undermines the integration of the internal market. the report therefore criticises the swiss decision and recalls that the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms and a pillar of the single market, of which it has always been an inseparable part and an indispensable precondition. i am voting against this report and against the extension of the single market, while approving its reservations on swiss migration policy.
in writing. ‒ following the referendum on 9 february 2014 in switzerland on a law against mass immigration, the european union wants to use retaliatory measures. it rejects the swiss request to renegotiate the agreement on the free movement of persons. the rapporteur is clearly calling for pressure to be put on the swiss authorities and is denying the will of the people, which was expressed in the referendum. the member for the sovereignty of peoples voted against.
in writing. this report follows the referendum held in switzerland on 9 february 2014 calling for the adoption of a law "against mass immigration" and where the swiss people had very clearly voted in favour of this bill. but the leaders of the european union, unable to tolerate democracy being used against the treaties, rejected the swiss confederation's request to renegotiate the agreement on the free movement of persons. this report is a scandalous attack on the sovereignty and the will of the swiss people. the rapporteur, mr schwab, clearly calls for pressure to be put on the swiss authorities to force them to revise their copy and to prevent them from putting into practice for too long what they were elected to do. the arrogance of this report is finally unbearable. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report follows the referendum held in switzerland on 9 february 2014 calling for the adoption of a law "against mass immigration" and where the swiss people had very clearly voted in favour of this bill. but eu leaders, unable to tolerate democracy being used against treaties, rejected the swiss confederation's request to renegotiate the agreement on the free movement of persons. this report is a scandalous attack on the sovereignty and the will of the swiss people. the rapporteur, mr schwab, clearly calls for pressure to be put on the swiss authorities to force them to revise their copy and to prevent them from putting into practice for too long what they were elected to do. the arrogance of this report is finally unbearable. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ switzerland is a key partner of the european union in economic, social and technological terms. the agreement between switzerland and the european economic area has facilitated trade between the two areas. however, some obstacles remain and impede the full implementation of the internal market. i voted in favour of the report, which gives an overview of the situation and proposes some improvements.
in writing. ‒ a real attack on switzerland's sovereignty, this report follows the swiss referendum on 9 february 2014 calling for the adoption of a law "against mass immigration". the swiss people have very clearly voted in favour of this bill, but the european union, in a very democratic way and as a retaliatory measure, has rejected the request of the swiss confederation to renegotiate the ftaa (agreement on the free movement of persons), an essential pillar of the single market. the rapporteur is shockingly ignorant of the will of the people, as the european union is accustomed to doing. the german schwab clearly calls for pressure to be put on the swiss authorities to force them to revise their copy and prevent them from putting into practice for too long what they were elected to do. i vote against this odious text.
in writing. ‒ member states are literally overwhelmed by the massive influx of illegal migrants into europe. the report explains that it is necessary to welcome the majority of these immigrants who are fleeing conflict and persecution from the islamic state. he advocates the establishment of quotas that require each country to receive, house, and care for these migrants. the text calls on all european actors to combat the networks of smugglers who organise human trafficking. we oppose this scandalous report in the strongest possible terms. firstly, the conflicts in libya and the middle east are the result of an absurd foreign policy which has been to overthrow totalitarian regimes in favour of islamists. secondly, it is necessary to recall that the majority of illegal immigrants are economic migrants who are not fleeing persecution and therefore do not intend to remain in europe. thirdly, the european union is complicit with the smugglers by not returning the migrant boats to their port of origin. the european institutions are therefore responsible for the human tragedy that is taking place in the mediterranean. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the eurocrats' blindness is matched only by their stubbornness. fortunately, our peoples are waking up and will no longer accept the euro-globalist dictatorship: "where danger grows, so does salvation", to use the famous phrase of the poet hölderlin.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on migration and refugees in europe is enthusiastic about the commission's proposals to manage the unprecedented influx of migrants. it also approved the emergency relocation of an increased number of asylum seekers from greece, italy and hungary (120 000) and the permanent mechanism amending the dublin regulation. this proposal therefore requires a fair and compulsory distribution key in defiance of the will of sovereign peoples who are mostly opposed to the influx of new immigrants contrary to what the media propaganda suggests. even though the eu had no money left to deal with the misery in greece and imposed unprecedented austerity on it, it found enough to provide for the people of third countries... the text also aims to establish a common european asylum system and, of course, to maintain schengen. the 'far right' is pointed out as exploiting the current situation. the eu and its leaders refuse to open their eyes to the economic and social situation that affects us and there is an urgent need to radically change our migration policy and regain our sovereignty, so i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ member states are literally overwhelmed by the massive influx of illegal migrants into europe. the report explains that it is necessary to welcome the majority of these immigrants who are fleeing conflict and persecution from the islamic state. he advocates the establishment of quotas that require each country to receive, house, and care for these migrants. the text calls on all european actors to combat the networks of smugglers who organise human trafficking. we oppose this scandalous report in the strongest possible terms. firstly, the conflicts in libya and the middle east are the result of an absurd foreign policy which has been to overthrow totalitarian regimes in favour of islamists. secondly, it is necessary to recall that the majority of illegal immigrants are economic migrants who are not fleeing persecution and therefore do not intend to remain in europe. thirdly, the european union is complicit with the smugglers by not returning the migrant boats to their port of origin. the european institutions are therefore responsible for the human tragedy that is taking place in the mediterranean. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian crisis we are currently experiencing is unprecedented in the history of the european union. thousands of migrants, persecuted in their own countries and fleeing the terror of daesh, arrive on european soil every day. we cannot remain indifferent to this tragedy. our countries have an obligation to put in place a real european asylum policy in the face of this emergency. i support jean-claude juncker's proposals to set up a permanent relocation mechanism in the event of a humanitarian emergency and a list of safe countries of origin. solidarity is the basis of the european project. if we want to stop populist hate speech, we must show that the european union is fully capable of meeting this challenge. i voted in favour of the resolution on migration and refugees in europe.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows the statement by jean-claude juncker, president of the european commission, to parliament last wednesday on the migration crisis in europe. at present, the member states with external borders to the european union - hungary, greece and italy - are the ones receiving the majority of migrants from the mediterranean. the commission proposes the relocation of 120 000 refugees (contained in these three states) to all the member states of the union through binding quotas. france, for its part, would take in 24,000 refugees. the commission also proposes the setting up of 'hot spots' or reception and sorting centres in the countries of arrival. these will ensure decent health conditions for refugees and distinguish between people fleeing persecution zones, who have the right to asylum in europe, and illegal economic migrants, who are to be returned to the border. i believe that the european union has a duty to provide concrete solutions to this humanitarian crisis, and i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we are currently experiencing the most serious migration crisis in our history since the second world war. since the beginning of the year, 366,402 people have arrived via the mediterranean sea, according to the un high commissioner for refugees. in addition, 2,800 people were killed or went missing. in view of the gravity of the situation, i did not want to obstruct this text, which allows a certain awareness of the member states. but i did not want to support it because i am opposed to this permanent and binding relocation mechanism that encourages the creation of an à la carte menu where the preferences of the applicants would dictate our european asylum policy. that is why i am in favour of voluntary interim measures for those who need protection.
in writing. ‒ mrs merkel's announcements welcoming 800 000 immigrants, suspending the dublin procedures are a great invitation to undertake the journey for all immigration applicants, of all nationalities and motivations. how many aylan kurdis will these ads kill? and for what reasons? because germany is generous ? or because its demographic catastrophe is likely to turn into an economic catastrophe in the near future? what kind of a cheap eldorado are these people risking their lives for ? the hell of human rights violated depicted in the ferrera report voted yesterday? europe in the process of third-worldisation, where 25% of the population is at risk of exclusion, where tens of millions of unemployed are stranded, where mass immigration has already proved its harmful consequences? you are coldly exploiting the situation to try to take a step towards the communitarianisation of immigration policies. you are giving a humanitarian veneer to what is, in truth, only the cynical human counterpart of your destructive economic policies. in the end, these men and women are not refugees to you, but future consumers, cheap labour and, you hope, those who will finance tomorrow the slow death of europe's ageing population.
in writing. i particularly welcome the adoption of this joint resolution endorsed by four political groups. it is an ambitious text that is in keeping with the tragedies and challenges we face. the line set by the european parliament is clear and demanding, first on the question of values, first of all solidarity and humanity. the course is also courageous in terms of the mechanisms that should be put in place as soon as possible: firstly, a permanent and mandatory relocation mechanism and also, the strengthening and creation of safe and legal migration routes for refugees. finally, the resolution addresses the root causes of migration. parliament called on the commission and mrs mogherini to convene an international conference on the refugee crisis. this conference should include the participation not only of the eu and its member states but also of un agencies, non-governmental actors and the international community as a whole. in the face of fear and hate speech, the eu and its member states must take all necessary measures to ensure a dignified, exemplary and controlled reception of refugees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the migration crisis in europe. the text fully supports the proposals made by jean-claude juncker and stresses the need for greater solidarity between member states to better manage the emergency of the massive arrival of migrants in the european union. the introduction of compulsory quotas for processing asylum applications is thus one of the first avenues to be agreed between member states. while we must not ignore the practical problems posed by the arrival of hundreds of thousands of refugees, it is europe's duty to welcome those who are victims of war to their countries of origin. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on migration and refugees in europe because the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities are core values of the european union. the current crisis requires the implementation of emergency measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution of the mainstream groups on migration and refugees in europe. this text perfectly illustrates the gap between the european union and public opinion in the member states. as many polls show, the vast majority of voters in europe want the borders to be re-established and mass immigration to be stopped. the resolution that has been voted in this parliament goes completely the other way. it advocates the maintenance of schengen, which has abolished internal borders while external borders are no longer controlled. it advocates the distribution of migrants within the european union, while the problem is not addressed at the source. it wants to promote legal immigration, whereas the absorption capacity of the member states has long been exceeded. it criticizes those who have seen it coming and warned of the problems we face.
in writing. ‒ driven by the urgency of the situation, the european parliament voted a resolution on immigration and refugees in europe. as has often been the case since the beginning of the humanitarian crisis that has shaken our continent, meps have managed to rise to the challenge by formulating a coherent response, based on a simple observation: the migration flows to europe are not destined to dry up. it is therefore a matter of organising as much as possible, in compliance with the values of solidarity, the schengen agreements and international conventions, to enable asylum seekers to lodge their application for protection without putting their lives at risk. to do this, the resolution before parliament proposes a three-stage strategy, which i fully support. in the short term: abandon the absurd dublin regulation and encourage states to adopt a solidarity and binding mechanism for the distribution of asylum seekers. in the medium term, we must build legal and secure routes to our continent. in the long term: tackling the root causes of migration, such as poverty, inequality and climate change. i voted for this resolution, of course.
in writing. ‒ member states are literally overwhelmed by the massive influx of illegal migrants into europe. the report explains that it is necessary to welcome the majority of these immigrants who are fleeing conflict and persecution from the islamic state. he advocates the establishment of quotas that require each country to receive, house, and care for these migrants. the text calls on all european actors to combat the networks of smugglers who organise human trafficking. we oppose this scandalous report in the strongest possible terms. firstly, the conflicts in libya and the near and middle east are the result of an absurd foreign policy which has been to overthrow totalitarian regimes in favour of islamists. secondly, it is necessary to recall that the majority of illegal immigrants are economic migrants who are not fleeing persecution and therefore do not intend to remain in europe. thirdly, the european union is complicit with the smugglers by not returning the migrant boats to their port of origin. the european institutions are therefore responsible for the human tragedy that is taking place in the mediterranean. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this motion for a resolution welcomes the commission's proposals to deal with the unprecedented influx of migrants. it also approved the emergency relocation of an increased number of asylum seekers from greece, italy and hungary (120 000) and the permanent mechanism amending the dublin regulation. this proposal therefore requires a fair and compulsory distribution key in defiance of the will of sovereign peoples who will have to endure an influx of immigrants from countries with very different cultures and traditions. where the eu had no money to deal with the poverty in greece, it found money to provide for the people of third countries... the text also aims to establish a common european asylum system, to maintain schengen, all in the spirit of european solidarity and human dignity. the text points to the passage "the extreme right" which exploits the current situation. i consider the eu's migration policy to be a real scourge and have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. the political crises in the middle east are generating migration flows unprecedented since the second world war, and thousands of migrants have died trying to cross the mediterranean. for several months now, the european union has been responding inadequately: the distribution of migrants within the member states by means of binding quotas makes no sense in a schengen area that abolishes internal borders. it is a rhetorical appeal to immigration and is encouraging more and more families who think they will be welcomed in europe to risk their lives in the mediterranean. it permanently uproots migrants from their cultural cradle, their language and their land, making it impossible for them to return and complicating their integration into european countries which are already the most generous in the world and which no longer have the means to welcome them with dignity. the text also addresses only the consequences and not the root causes of the migration tragedy, which will only be resolved by military intervention in the air and on the ground, led by an international coalition including russia and the arab countries. for these reasons, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution welcomes the commission's proposals to deal with the unprecedented influx of migrants. it also approved the emergency relocation of an increased number of asylum seekers from greece, italy and hungary (120 000) and the permanent mechanism amending the dublin regulation. this proposal therefore requires a fair and compulsory distribution key in defiance of the will of sovereign peoples who will have to endure an influx of immigrants from countries with very different cultures and traditions. where the eu had no money to deal with the poverty in greece, it found money to provide for the people of third countries... the text also aims to establish a common european asylum system, to maintain schengen, all in the spirit of 'european solidarity and human dignity'. the text points to the passage "the extreme right" which exploits the current situation. i consider the eu's migration policy to be a real scourge and have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the union is facing a serious and widespread migration crisis. it is necessary to act swiftly but in a coordinated manner. the european parliament adopted a resolution following president juncker's statements on the union's emergency measures to deal with the migration crisis. however, i abstained on this text because some measures which are too restrictive could undermine the stability of the union. i am against mandatory and permanent quotas. i think first of all that the union must rethink its migration policy, that it must regain control of this policy.
in writing. ‒ in this joint resolution, the european parliament sets out the priorities and actions to be taken now to save lives and improve the reception of refugees and asylum seekers on our continent. it reiterated its support for the commission's initiative to establish a permanent and compulsory applicant allocation mechanism. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. while some are building walls by fuelling intolerable sentiments and rhetoric against refugees, other europeans are choosing humanity by showing their support and commitment to help those fleeing death. this is the message of hope for the future of the union that our national leaders must convey with all their might.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on migration and refugees in europe, which calls for the best and quickest response to the emergency we are facing. solidarity between member states will be necessary to overcome this crisis. the legal and budgetary means available to the union, particularly through its frontex agency, must be strengthened. the phenomenon we are experiencing today is not temporary and cannot be managed without a common european policy on the matter. we must also tackle the causes of displacement and therefore probably review our foreign policy towards the areas of origin.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the plight of migrants and refugees in europe. the european union must respond to this crisis with a comprehensive and coherent immigration and asylum policy. we need an effective implementation of the european asylum system. the dublin regulation should also be amended to ensure that a binding and permanent scheme for the distribution of asylum seekers between member states is established, based on a fair and compulsory distribution key. the new commission proposal on the emergency distribution of an increased number of asylum seekers should also be welcomed. in addition, safe and legal channels must be established to avoid further human tragedies, while effective action must be taken against the criminal and odious networks of smugglers. it is a question of solidarity. it's a matter of values. it's a matter of responsibility. it's an emergency.
in writing. ‒ since the beginning of 2015, the un high commissioner's office says that 366 402 people have crossed the mediterranean to reach the european continent and 2 800 people have lost their lives. the european union and its member states must react and show solidarity in the face of this dramatic situation. this solidarity must not only be between member states but also towards refugees. this is a problem facing the european union and it requires a european solution. on the other hand, the european union, as a global actor, must act at international level to restore peace and find political solutions to conflicts affecting the countries from which refugees come. i voted in favour of this resolution because more than ever we need to show solidarity.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the inertia and the hallucinatory hesitations of member states, the european parliament wanted to express its position on what european migration policy should be in the light of the global humanitarian crisis. this is the most ambitious resolution that has been voted by the european parliament since i have been a member of the european parliament. i welcome the support for the relocation mechanism proposed by the commission and the request for a revision of the dublin regulation. the need to open up legal pathways to european territory is clearly reaffirmed, as is the possibility of asylum applications being lodged at embassies. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border controls and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border controls. if i did not expect a denunciation of the deadly consequences of fortress europe, a minimum of reserve was necessary. i do not want to deny the progress and the need for parliament to weigh in on the states, but i do not want to mix my voice with those of the extreme right, so i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in substance, several aspects of this motion for a resolution are positive. it is therefore commendable to wish for a lasting and just peace to the israeli-palestinian conflict. the call for the security of the civilian population and the demand for the lifting of the blockade of gaza are also quite understandable in the light of the current situation in the middle east. however, together with my colleagues from the national front, we believe that the european union should not interfere in foreign policy. this must remain the prerogative of the states. however, this motion for a resolution goes against this principle when it states that the union must develop a comprehensive and coherent vision and become politically involved in the resolution of the conflict. by voting for this text, the european parliament illegitimately assumes exclusive royal competence. once again, the union is blatantly encroaching on the sovereignty of the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european union has played a most damaging role in the middle east, by its total submission to the short-term interests of the united states of america and the gulf oil monarchies. we have to change our perspective completely !
in writing. the aim of this motion for a resolution is to increase the responsibilities of the european union as an actor in the middle east and to arrive at a peace initiative for the region. this proposal is nonsense, given the enormous disparity of the positions of the eu member states on the issue, but also given the fact that it is not the eu alone, with beautiful declarations, that will succeed in safeguarding peace in the middle east. by wanting to use diplomacy, the eu really prevents any resolution of conflict since it adds to the cacophony by asking states to find a common position that will only give rise to a vague declaration of good intentions to satisfy all parties. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the middle east peace process, this resolution sets out the objectives of the mandate of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, in the context of the peace negotiations between israel and the palestinians. this recommendation sets out a new approach of the european union to the resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict, focusing on political negotiations, the use of non-violent means and the priority given to the rights of civilians. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i support this recommendation and have voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. the eu must play a leading role in the middle east peace process. peace between israelis and palestinians will only be possible through the peaceful coexistence of two viable states. this is what this resolution, which i voted for, reaffirms. i wish, by this vote, to denounce the main obstacles to the peace process: the colonisation of palestinian territories and the related human rights violations, the blockade of gaza, the rocket fire towards israel, the division of the palestinian authority. the resolution calls on the parties to continue their efforts and welcomes the un's action, in particular on behalf of palestinian refugees. parliament supported the commission, the eeas, ms mogherini and mr gentilini and wanted the eu to play a strong role which could be valuable in a situation which, just a year ago, was mired in the gaza war. i am convinced that the eu must pursue a political solution to the peace process, while avoiding some indirect responsibility in the conflict. for example, there is a need to study more closely the destination and use of eu funds in the region and to make progress on the labelling rules for products from israeli settlements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. we must do everything possible to ensure that credible peace efforts are resumed without delay. the high representative, federica mogherini, and the eu special representative, fernando gentilini, must make better use of the institutional and political expertise of eu member states in the region to play a real political role in the peace process towards a two-state solution.
in writing. ‒ in substance, several aspects of this motion for a resolution are positive. it is therefore commendable to wish for a lasting and just peace to the israeli-palestinian conflict. the call for the security of the civilian population and the demand for the lifting of the blockade of gaza are also quite understandable in the light of the current situation in the middle east. however, together with my colleagues from the national front, we believe that the european union should not interfere in foreign policy. this must remain the prerogative of the states. however, this motion for a resolution goes against this principle when it states that the union must develop a comprehensive and coherent vision and become politically involved in the resolution of the conflict. by voting for this text, the european parliament illegitimately assumes exclusive royal competence. once again, the union is blatantly encroaching on the sovereignty of the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european union's contribution to the middle east peace process. the text thus recalls the need to relaunch the peace process talks, on the basis of the principle of coexistence of two states based on the 1967 borders. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the middle east peace process calling for the immediate resumption of credible peace efforts and a two-state solution.
in writing. ‒ in substance, several aspects of this motion for a resolution are positive. it is therefore commendable to wish for a lasting and just peace to the israeli-palestinian conflict. the call for the security of the civilian population and the demand for the lifting of the blockade of gaza are also quite understandable in the light of the current situation in the middle east. however, we believe that the european union should not interfere in foreign policy. this must remain the prerogative of the states. however, this motion for a resolution goes against this principle when it states that the union must develop a comprehensive and coherent vision and become politically involved in the resolution of the conflict. by voting for this text, the european parliament illegitimately assumes exclusive royal competence. once again, the union is blatantly encroaching on the sovereignty of the member states. the member therefore voted against.
in writing. the aim of this motion for a resolution is to increase the responsibilities of the european union as an actor in the middle east and to arrive at a peace initiative for the region. this proposal is nonsense given the enormous disparity in the positions of the eu member states on the issue. the eu is unheard of first because no one is interested in listening to it, since it represents only itself, and second because the diversity of the states' positions leads to a veritable diplomatic cacophony. in the end, the eu prevents its member states from having a real say in the resolution of this conflict by trying to force them to find a common solution at european level. this is indicative of the sclerosis that the eu carries. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the role of the european union in the middle east peace process. the report recalls that the rise of the islamic state group, the growth of radicalism and the spread of terrorism in the middle east pose significant threats to israel's security. it proposes measures to bring stability and security to the region and gives a clear mandate to the eu high representative to further engage the eu in the process of resolving the israeli-palestinian conflict.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today adopted by a large majority its recommendations on the role of the european union in the middle east peace process. negotiations between israel and the palestinian authority have come to a standstill. the french initiative at the un to draw up a roadmap for the resolution of the conflict will not succeed as long as there is doubt about the us veto. this is why the european union must play its full part in the mediation efforts. this is the high representative's priority and the role of the union as israel's leading trading partner and the palestinian authority's main funder. the priority now is to bring the two sides back to the negotiating table.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution aims to increase the responsibilities of the european union as an actor in the middle east and to arrive at a peace initiative for the region. this proposal is nonsense given the enormous disparity in the positions of the eu member states on the issue. the eu is unheard of first because no one is interested in listening to it, since it represents only itself, and second because the diversity of the states' positions leads to a veritable diplomatic cacophony. in the end, the eu prevents its member states from having a real say in the resolution of this conflict by trying to force them to find a common solution at european level. this is indicative of the sclerosis that the eu carries. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in the current context in the middle east region, the european parliament wanted to recall the key role of the european union as a provider of humanitarian aid and as a trading partner in the region. the resolution also urges the governments concerned to continue the dialogue and to try to stabilise the region in the interests of the local populations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which recalls that the european union must continue to affirm its support for the two-state solution through concrete action and by ensuring full respect for the rights of the civilian population. the eu is an important player at international level in the efforts to restore stability and security to the region. it is urgent and essential to put an end to any escalation of violence and to encourage the resumption of peace talks. respect for human rights and humanitarian law will help to achieve a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians.
in writing. ‒ the report denounces the alleged violation of human rights in belarus. freedom of expression and certain individual freedoms would be trampled underfoot by the government in power. the country has not held free elections since 1994. the report therefore calls on belarus to hold fair elections, to stop the use of the death penalty and to abolish forced labour. while we recognize that belarus does not respect human rights, we oppose any moral condemnation and believe that it is neither our duty nor our responsibility to force a sovereign country to submit to our definition of democracy. it is also quite surprising to see the european institutions reacting with indignation to this situation when they are acting against the people without regard for their will. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ while it is regrettable that the european union is maintaining its systematic hostility towards the russian federation, we should welcome the improvement in our relations with belarus. it 's about time . especially after minsk's efforts to achieve a lasting ceasefire in ukraine. yes, let us get closer to belarus, but let us not try to distance it from its russian neighbour! belarus can and must play the role that ukraine played before the crisis: a bridge, a link between the russian federation and the european nations! at a time when europe is facing the immense challenge of millions of so-called refugees arriving on our soil, it is essential that our continent as a whole finally stops tearing itself apart. the reality of this outpouring is far beyond the fiction imagined by jean raspail in his prophetic camp des saints. so let's stop dividing ourselves or the whole old continent will descend into chaos. that is why i voted against this resolution, which adds fuel to the fire and intends, among other things, to impose 'independent media' on belarus.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus is a further demonstration of europeanist imperialism and its interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states. even though belarus is the last 'communist dictatorship' in europe, the eu has no right to interfere in these policies. a presidential election will be held on october 11, 2015 and the eu has put a whole bunch of sanctions in place since the country decided to ally with russia by referendum in the 90s. this proposal seeks to put belarus in a pro-eu position and includes a whole series of demands such as abolition of the death penalty or support for independent media by the eu (see their funding). i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report denounces the alleged violation of human rights in belarus. freedom of expression and certain individual freedoms would be trampled underfoot by the government in power. the country has not held free elections since 1994. the report therefore calls on belarus to hold fair elections, to stop the use of the death penalty and to abolish forced labour. while we recognize that belarus does not respect human rights, we oppose any moral condemnation and believe that it is neither our duty nor our responsibility to force a sovereign country to submit to our definition of democracy. it is also quite surprising to see the european institutions reacting with indignation to this situation when they are acting against the people without regard for their will. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report denounces the alleged violation of human rights in belarus. freedom of expression and certain individual freedoms would be trampled underfoot by the government in power. the country has not held free elections since 1994. the report therefore calls on belarus to hold fair elections, to stop the use of the death penalty and to abolish forced labour. while we recognize that belarus does not respect human rights, we oppose any moral condemnation and believe that it is neither our duty nor our responsibility to force a sovereign country to submit to our definition of democracy. it is also quite surprising to see the european institutions reacting with indignation to this situation when they are acting against the people without regard for their will. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report denounces the alleged violation of human rights in belarus. freedom of expression and certain individual freedoms would be trampled underfoot by the government in power. the country has not held free elections since 1994. the report therefore calls on belarus to hold fair elections, to stop the use of the death penalty and to abolish forced labour. while we recognize that belarus does not respect human rights, we oppose any moral condemnation and believe that it is neither our duty nor our responsibility to force a sovereign country to submit to our definition of democracy. it is also quite surprising to see the european institutions reacting with indignation to this situation when they are acting against the people without regard for their will. i therefore voted against.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus is a further demonstration of europeanist imperialism and its interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states. with the presidential election set for october 11, 2015, the eu has put a whole bunch of sanctions in place since the country decided to ally with russia in a referendum in the 1990s. this proposal then takes advantage of the current situation to put belarus into a pro-western policy seeking to further divide the eu. the eu's role in the fight against terrorism is also reflected in the eu's role in the fight against terrorism. i decided to vote against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the situation in belarus. the text welcomes the efforts made by belarus to achieve a ceasefire in ukraine and the recent release of several political prisoners. it highlights progress in the fields of higher education, vocational training, the digital market, the energy sector, food safety and culture. it nevertheless stressed that much remains to be done in the area of the rule of law and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the draft resolution interferes significantly in the internal affairs of belarus and seeks to extend the european union's grip on a state that is not even a member. i think it is unacceptable that the media should be financed, which are supposedly independent but which will obviously be subordinate to the european union. let the belarusians decide their own destiny, as every people has the right to do. i would also like to see the peoples of the eu member states regain their freedom one day. i therefore oppose this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution condemning human rights violations in belarus. the resolution urged belarus to re-establish contact with the eu and the international community and to stop arresting human rights defenders or opponents of the regime. if some prisoners have recently been released, the country must continue on this path.
in writing. ‒ the 'social and solidarity-based' jobs promoted in this report are very often capped in terms of pay, which contributes to social dumping. there are also real risks of mismatches as to who is in receipt of such jobs. as a result, i voted against this text.
in writing. this report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment aims to develop the social and solidarity economy by focusing on 5 major areas (education/training, access to finance, visibility at european level, improvement of the legal framework, development of the social economy in the eu and the member states). social entrepreneurship includes forms of entrepreneurship whose main purpose is social or environmental and where the majority of the profits are reinvested in that mission. while this objective is obviously laudable, i note the total contradiction with the competition policies advocated by the eu. moreover, the social and solidarity economy is a sector which, although it is possible to maintain local jobs that cannot be relocated for people with low qualifications and which sometimes gives rise to some successes such as certain scops (for example in the context of the takeover of profitable businesses by its former employees), remains a largely illusory sector, since the remuneration of these jobs is often capped, the scope of these jobs is often narrow and can help only a limited number of people, the state aids granted are subject to little control and we have no concrete analyses on the long-term economic and environmental effects ... i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ social entrepreneurship encompasses all initiatives that integrate social and environmental responsibility into their activities. these organisations emphasise their governance, which is more respectful of stakeholders, the well-being of their employees and their environmentally responsible approach. these initiatives are part of what is known as the social and solidarity economy. the report advocates developing social entrepreneurship and social innovation as these businesses have proven to be more resilient to the effects of the crisis. they are job creators, they care more about the interests of their employees and are therefore better placed to meet the union's objectives set out in horizon 2020. although the draft report is welcome, it is undeniable that the social and solidarity economy does not create enough jobs to make up for those which have been destroyed over the last 40 years under the impetus of the european union. this is yet another attempt to conceal the failure of all european policies in terms of employment. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report supports the promotion of social entrepreneurship and social innovation as a key driver of economic development, and in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the rapporteur calls on the european commission to include social economy enterprises in the action programmes on employment and social inclusion. it also called on the member states to invest in this area at national level, in particular in adapting national tax systems to the benefit of social economy enterprises. i believe that the fight against unemployment is a priority in europe and that social entrepreneurship is one of the solutions to tackle it, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the text on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment highlights the links between the social economy and local realities. i voted in favour of this text because social enterprises can be promoters of solutions adapted to specific needs. the european union is thus demonstrating its determination to combat unemployment and promote social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ while the social and solidarity-based economy, which is the inspiration for the terms and substance of this report, allows the promotion of social and territorial cohesion in the union, its entrepreneurial dimension has a minimal influence on the economy. this strategy affects only a limited number of jobs and cannot initiate structural change. however, funds are allocated to this strategy and the lack of prior evaluation and impact assessment provided by the european commission is a shortcoming that deprives the legislator of long-term vision. finally, there is a significant risk of the emergence of recurrent and permanent beneficiaries of this strategy, which was originally intended to be a one-off correction for reintegration and the maintenance of the social link. i have opposed this report because i am opposed to the injection of certain jobs into the union and to unconsidered expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms véronica lopé-fontagné, on social entrepreneurship and innovation in the fight against unemployment. the report stresses that too many member states do not have legislation that meets the needs of social and solidarity-based economy structures and therefore encourages the member states to take measures to reduce the legal uncertainty that these structures suffer from. the report also recommends the introduction of a european label for social entrepreneurship. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment, supporting better access to public procurement, better financing and the creation of a legal status of its own in the context of the europe 2020 strategy for this economy, which employs more than 14 million people in europe and is therefore particularly important both in terms of employment and social and environmental impacts.
in writing. i voted against this text, which is honourable but so illusory. this strategy is in fact applicable to only a very narrow range of jobs and therefore to a very limited number of people. the absence of impact studies and controls does not allow a clear idea of the long-term consequences of these measures. this is the latest attempt to cover up the inefficiency and failure of 30 years of employment policy in europe.
in writing. this report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment aims to develop the social economy in solidarity by focusing on 5 major areas (education/training, access to finance, visibility at european level, improvement of the legal framework, development of the social economy in the eu and the member states). social entrepreneurship includes forms of entrepreneurship whose main purpose is social or environmental and where the majority of the profits are reinvested in that mission. social innovation is part of the concept of the social and solidarity economy. while this objective is laudable, it is in total contradiction to the eu's policies of increased competition. moreover, the social and solidarity economy is largely illusory, since the remuneration of these jobs is often capped, which encourages social dumping, the scope of these jobs is often narrow and can only help a limited number of people, the state aids granted are subject to little control, the long-term economic and environmental effects are little analysed, etc. these proposals are a counter-fire to the ineffectiveness and failure of the eu's employment policies. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the role of enterprises, cooperatives, associations, mutuals and foundations in the fight against unemployment. the report highlights that the social and solidarity economy represents 2 million enterprises, or 10% of enterprises in the european union, and employs 14 million people, or 6.5% of workers. the purpose of this text is to set up regulatory frameworks in the member states to develop this type of enterprise, which creates jobs even during the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by my colleague, veronica lopé fontagné. in order to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy, social economy enterprises have demonstrated their ability to provide innovative solutions to boost social cohesion and inclusion and job creation, including during periods of economic downturn. in addition, social economy enterprises are closely linked to local and regional realities and offer solutions adapted to specific needs. the social and solidarity economy must be clearly identified as a priority for job creation and social cohesion. to do this, all member states must put in place legal frameworks and we must push for the creation of a european label for the recognition of these structures, which often lack legal recognition.
in writing. ‒ this report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment aims to develop the social economy in solidarity by focusing on 5 major areas (education/training, access to finance, visibility at european level, improvement of the legal framework, development of the social economy in the eu and the member states). social entrepreneurship includes forms of entrepreneurship whose main purpose is social or environmental and where the majority of the profits are reinvested in that mission. social innovation is part of the concept of the social and solidarity economy. while this objective is laudable, it is in total contradiction to the eu's policies of increased competition. moreover, the social and solidarity economy is largely illusory, since the remuneration of these jobs is often capped, which encourages social dumping, the scope of these jobs is often narrow and can only help a limited number of people, the state aids granted are subject to little control, the long-term economic and environmental effects are little analysed, etc. these proposals are a counter-fire to the ineffectiveness and failure of the eu's employment policies. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ between may 2012 and may 2015, the unemployment rate in the eu-28 increased from 10.4% to 9.6%. the unemployment rate has fallen but is still high. the union must step up its action to combat unemployment by using different tools and policies. we have adopted a report in parliament on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment. these economic activities have real potential for growth. they employ more than 14 million people in the union. the report encourages the union to promote these economic activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recalls that in order to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy, social economy enterprises have shown their ability to provide innovative solutions to stimulate both social cohesion and inclusion, and also job creation. it is important to remember that social economy enterprises are closely linked to local and regional realities and thus offer solutions adapted to specific needs: social entrepreneurship and social innovation.
in writing. ‒ although honourable, the strategy described in this text is illusory. several criticisms can be made: - social and solidarity jobs are very often capped in terms of remuneration, which contributes to social dumping; - this strategy applies to a relatively narrow range of jobs, and therefore could only help a limited number of people for a major investment; - the lack of means of controlling the use of funds granted as state aid for the development of these companies; - the lack of impact study by the commission, and therefore of information on the long-term economic, social and environmental effects; - the possible (and likely) drift as to the privileged beneficiaries of this type of jobs, etc. it is in fact the latest attempt to cover up the inefficiency and failure of 30 years of employment policy in europe. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the role of the social economy as a way out of the economic crisis. i regret, however, that he continues to confuse the social and solidarity economy with social business. despite the crisis and the unprecedented destruction of jobs, the social and solidarity economy has proven its resilience, far superior to that of other types of enterprises, and its ability to create new jobs in an unfavourable economic environment. the ep report stresses that the social economy is an important driver for achieving a more sustainable economic and financial model, which creates social and territorial cohesion and respects the environment, as mentioned in the eu treaties. it called on the commission to establish a legal framework for all social and solidarity-based economy enterprises by adopting european statutes, which the member states have still not adopted despite repeated requests from the sector. after the toïa report (2009), this is another important report showing that the social economy represents a viable alternative to the traditional business model, an economy that serves people, is innovative, and is more responsive to the needs and challenges of society.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to take stock of european employment policies in order to find the appropriate solutions to reduce the unemployment rate without attacking social protection systems. the rapporteur expresses his willingness to tackle the unemployment rate among young people and the elderly and the high regional disparities. to this end, they advocate measures to encourage the unemployed to return to work, to improve the skills of employees, to anticipate the needs of enterprises, to encourage apprenticeship, to encourage the employment of young people and older workers and to develop entrepreneurship. the guiding principle of the text is to defend the mobility of workers within the eu in order to reduce regional disparities in unemployment. as usual, they do not address the root causes of structural unemployment, namely unfair international competition, the loss of monetary and legislative sovereignty and the shrinking budgetary room for manoeuvre. the only way forward for the european institutions so far has been competitive disinflation, characterized by lower social charges and a slowdown in wages. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. the solution proposed is to open our borders more and more to the four winds of globalisation.
in writing. this report on creating a competitive labour market in the 21st century eu aims to take stock of the policies pursued to make the labour market more competitive while trying to preserve the social protection system. it is clear that these two objectives are inherently contradictory, since the more the european union encourages states to be competitive, the more citizens see their social protection melting away like snow in the sun. the report also deplores the high level of unemployment in the eu, particularly among young people and the elderly, but the paths of reform envisaged are at best questionable and unoriginal. worse still, this report promotes the mobility of workers when it is known that this threatens the peripheral countries of the euro area. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to take stock of european employment policies in order to find the appropriate solutions to reduce the unemployment rate without attacking social protection systems. the rapporteur expresses his willingness to tackle the unemployment rate among young people and the elderly and the high regional disparities. to this end, they advocate measures to encourage the unemployed to return to work, to improve the skills of employees, to anticipate the needs of enterprises, to encourage apprenticeship, to encourage the employment of young people and older workers and to develop entrepreneurship. the guiding principle of the text is to defend the mobility of workers within the eu in order to reduce regional disparities in unemployment. as usual, they do not address the root causes of structural unemployment, namely unfair international competition, the loss of monetary and legislative sovereignty and the shrinking budgetary room for manoeuvre. the only way forward for the european institutions so far has been competitive disinflation, characterized by lower social charges and a slowdown in wages. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis has led to low growth and a considerable increase in unemployment in europe. we are in a union without frontiers, where the labour market is totally open. european citizens are free to move, reside and work in all member states. we must therefore find a common solution to the problem of unemployment by creating a more competitive labour market. the challenges facing workers are not the same as they were twenty years ago. we must make progress in both flexibility and security in the european labour market. i was also able to reiterate my position in favour of the introduction of a minimum wage in all european member states. i regard this measure as a first step in the fight against social dumping. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to provide a better match between the skills of young workers and the demands of the labour market. while in europe youth unemployment (21.4%) is twice the european average (9.9%), two million jobs in europe are not being filled because of a mismatch between the skills of young people and the requirements of recruiters. the rapporteur proposes to increase flexibility for workers and the market by emphasising the active participation of all the main actors in the chain, which are training institutes, enterprises, employers' organisations and jobseekers. it makes several recommendations for lifelong learning, the inclusion of the unemployed and the improvement of language learning. particular attention is also paid to smes and micro-enterprises. i think that this report is going in the right direction in pointing out the causes of unemployment and the failings of the european labour market, and i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the report is built from the outset on the error of believing that there is a european labour market when member states have different social, wage and economic practices in this area. it is true that labour mobility is low in the union but this cannot be addressed by employment policies. this is a structural barrier that divides national markets, that of language and work organisation. despite the posting of workers directive, which has created intolerable social dumping situations, european workers cannot move from one national market to another. more importantly, the report seems to draw a very broad labour market, since it is about opening it up to non-european workers. the intensification of the free movement of workers to and within the union is not the solution to unemployment, it is one of its drivers. i voted against this text because i am opposed to ultra-liberalism without borders.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to take stock of european employment policies in order to find the appropriate solutions to reduce the unemployment rate without attacking social protection systems. the rapporteur expresses his willingness to tackle the unemployment rate among young people and the elderly and the high regional disparities. to this end, they advocate measures to encourage the unemployed to return to work, to improve the skills of employees, to anticipate the needs of enterprises, to encourage apprenticeship, to encourage the employment of young people and older workers and to develop entrepreneurship. the guiding principle of the text is to defend the mobility of workers within the eu in order to reduce regional disparities in unemployment. as usual, they do not address the root causes of structural unemployment, namely unfair international competition, the loss of monetary and legislative sovereignty and the shrinking budgetary room for manoeuvre. the only way forward for the european institutions so far has been competitive disinflation, characterized by lower social charges and a slowdown in wages. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the dlabajova report on creating a competitive labour market in the 21st century union. the fight against unemployment must remain at the top of the eu's priorities. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and in order to ensure that the demand for work corresponds to the supply, i share the ideas developed in the report, particularly in the field of vocational training and in terms of language teaching.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on creating a more competitive market in the union in the 21st century because, in view of the current employment situation and challenges in europe, it is necessary to promote the competitiveness of the european market, to strengthen the links between education and employment, the exchange of best practices between member states, to develop entrepreneurship from a young age, to reduce the shortage of skilled labour and finally to develop new skills and jobs, especially in the field of new technologies.
in writing. - i voted against this bill! it starts from a false observation: unemployment is, according to its author, due to a problem of mobility of people, who do not know how to get to where there is work. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. moreover, this text implies that citizens must adapt to the digital economy when the opposite should be the case! this project prepares us for a change in migration policy, in order to open the labour market to non-european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to take stock of european employment policies in order to find the appropriate solutions to reduce the unemployment rate without attacking social protection systems. the rapporteur expresses his willingness to tackle the unemployment rate among young people and the elderly and the high regional disparities. to this end, they advocate measures to encourage the unemployed to return to work, to improve the skills of employees, to anticipate the needs of enterprises, to encourage apprenticeship, to encourage the employment of young people and older workers and to develop entrepreneurship. the guiding principle of the text is to defend the mobility of workers within the eu in order to reduce regional disparities in unemployment. as usual, they do not address the root causes of structural unemployment, namely unfair international competition, the loss of monetary and legislative sovereignty and the shrinking budgetary room for manoeuvre. the only way forward for the european institutions so far has been competitive disinflation, characterized by lower social charges and a slowdown in wages. i voted against it.
in writing. this report on creating a competitive labour market in the 21st century eu aims to take stock of the policies pursued to make the labour market more competitive while trying to preserve the social protection system. these are contradictory objectives, and it is not surprising that the former prevails over the latter. while the high level of unemployment in the eu, particularly among young people and the elderly, and the disparity in the level of unemployment are deplorable, the paths of reform envisaged are at least questionable and not very original. the programme includes 'incentives for the unemployed to return to work', 'developing entrepreneurship' (a whole programme), 'incentives for young people and older people to return to work', etc. worse, this report promotes labour mobility when it is now recognised (cf. paul krugman) that it threatens the peripheral euro area countries, whose tax base is moving abroad, thus complicating the recovery of public accounts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the creation of a competitive labour market in the union of the 21st century. this report calls for more coordination between labour market actors to better match job supply and demand. the aim is to foster dialogue between education systems, wage organisations and employers' organisations, with particular attention to smes and small firms, which represent the largest pool of employment in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to send the european commission the european parliament's recommendations on labour market reform. the effects of the crisis are still felt on the labour market and job creation remains low. the eu has made it its objective to combat unemployment, and in particular youth unemployment. at the same time, nearly 2 million jobs remain unfilled in europe. the report stresses the need for labour market reform to achieve greater flexibility and security in order to allow a better match between the skills of jobseekers and the skills required by employers. this will require better coordination between the academic and the working world. the opportunities offered by the eures network, lifelong learning and the promotion of language learning should also be emphasised.
in writing. ‒ report on creating a competitive labour market in the union in the 21st century aims to take stock of the policies pursued to make the labour market more competitive while trying to preserve the social protection system. these are contradictory objectives, and it is not surprising that the former prevails over the latter. while the high level of unemployment in the eu, particularly among young people and the elderly, and the disparity in the level of unemployment are deplorable, the paths of reform envisaged are at least questionable and not very original. the 'incentives for the unemployed to return to work' are reminiscent of the ultra-liberal notion of 'voluntary unemployment', or the idea that 'entrepreneurship should be developed' (a whole programme)... worse, this report promotes labour mobility when it is now recognised (cf. paul krugman) that it threatens the peripheral euro area countries, whose tax base is moving abroad, thus complicating the recovery of public accounts.
in writing. ‒ with an unemployment rate of 9.6% in the eu-28, unemployment remains one of the union's major problems. youth unemployment is of particular concern as it stands at 21.4%. conversely, nearly 2 million jobs in the union are not filled because of labour market imbalances and a labour force that is not sufficiently mobile. in this context, i voted in favour of the report on the creation of a competitive labour market in the union. in this text, parliament encouraged the commission to introduce reforms aimed at creating a more flexible labour market and a system for the recognition of skills and jobs.
in writing. ‒ with the unemployment rate in the european union exceeding 9.5% and youth unemployment at 25%, the creation of sustainable and quality jobs must be our main concern. i rejected the dlabajová report and its old liberal recipes which have proved ineffective. the 'flexibilisation' of the labour market is not the answer. far from curbing employment, the workers' rights and protections that the liberals are attacking are curbing precariousness. while more than 23 million europeans are looking for a job, the report, by advocating the 'incentive to work' by abolishing social assistance, feeds the myth of the voluntary unemployed. so i had to oppose his adoption in the state. i have, however, supported the alternative resolution tabled by the socialists and the greens. the resolution stressed the importance of investment, training and accompanying measures, recalled that mobility should be chosen and not suffered, and stressed the urgency of combating fraud in the posting of workers directive.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to allow full freedom of movement within the european union to tackle the problem of unemployment, which affects all age groups. this implies that only lack of mobility causes such unemployment and that it could be miraculously solved in this way. the text also asks citizens to adapt to the economy and digital evolution when the reverse should be the way to make the situation a little more humane. this project prepares us for a change in migration policy, in order to open the labour market to non-european citizens. for the eu, the simplest solution to europe's demographic challenges is immigration. the project aims to address the effects, not the causes, of unemployment. i am voting against the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ these two annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law detail the legal proceedings brought against member states for not transposing european commission directives quickly enough. in this context, the european court of justice has delivered 31 judgments against member states, mainly in areas relating to consumer protection, the environment, transport or the internal market. the text recalls that the member states have an obligation to transpose fully and effectively the commission's directives. if not, the lisbon treaty provides that the court of justice can sanction countries that do not respect european law. the report even recommends that these sanctions be tightened. we are firmly opposed to the european dictate which is to impose on the peoples of europe political and economic orientations which are not their own. the european union is a totalitarian organisation which flouts individual freedoms and the national sovereignty of the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the 30th and 31st annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law for the years 2012 and 2013 take stock of the infringement procedures brought against member states for delayed or incorrect transposition of eu directives by the commission, in the exercise of its role as 'guardian of the treaties' (article 17 teu) and of its powers as defined in articles 258 to 260 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu (infringement procedure). in 2013, the court of justice of the european union delivered 52 judgments (article 258 tfeu), 31 of which were unfavourable to the member states. this is one of the sad innovations of the lisbon treaty: at the request of the commission, the court of justice can impose penalties for delay in transposition without waiting for a second judgment. i therefore voted against this report despite some positive points, such as the recognition that 'certain policies imposed on member states, in particular the privatisation of public goods, constitute a direct breach of the principles on which the union is founded' and 'article 345 tfeu provides that the treaties in no way prejudice the system of property ownership in the member states'.
in writing. this report on the 30th and 31st annual reports on the monitoring of the application of the eu advocates a number of points that i oppose, such as the full transposition and effective implementation of the common european system as a top priority or the fact that the charter of fundamental rights is considered a treaty like any other. in addition, i strongly condemn the introduction of the possibility for the cjeu to fine states which have delays in transposition or the call on the commission to be more strict on the transposition of environmental directives in particular. with its myriad standards and new regulations every day, the eu is becoming more and more of a cold, bureaucratic monster like the ussr in its day, only with ultra-liberalism to add to it. although the report contains some positive measures, such as condemning the obligation on states to privatise certain public assets (which is contrary to article 345 of the feu treaty) and expressing concern about austerity measures, i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it welcomes the new provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon in article 260 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and calls for the commission to be more strict towards member states in the event of incorrect transposition or non-transposition of directives.
in writing. ‒ these two annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law detail the legal proceedings brought against member states for not transposing european commission directives quickly enough. in this context, the european court of justice has delivered 31 judgments against member states, mainly in areas relating to consumer protection, the environment, transport or the internal market. the text recalls that the member states have an obligation to transpose fully and effectively the commission's directives. if not, the lisbon treaty provides that the court of justice can sanction countries that do not respect european law. the report even recommends that these sanctions be tightened. we are firmly opposed to the european dictate which is to impose on the peoples of europe political and economic orientations which are not their own. the european union is a totalitarian organisation which flouts individual freedoms and the national sovereignty of the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the 30th and 31st annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law (2012-2013) set out the infringement procedures for breaches of the obligations to transpose european texts into national law in each member state. i cannot support the regrets about the poor application of european law, since i consider that this regulation weighs on our economies, our legal systems and undermines the independence of the states. it also appears that many infringement procedures have been established in the fields of the environment, transport, the internal market and consumer protection. in other words, we find that states have difficulty following the commission's lead on issues that require flexibility and broad adaptation to keep pace with change. i therefore voted against the text.
in writing. ‒ these two annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law detail the legal proceedings brought against member states for not transposing european commission directives quickly enough. in this context, the european court of justice has delivered 31 judgments against member states, mainly in areas relating to consumer protection, the environment, transport or the internal market. the text recalls that the member states have an obligation to transpose fully and effectively the commission's directives. if not, the lisbon treaty provides that the court of justice can sanction countries that do not respect european law. the report even recommends that these sanctions be tightened. we are firmly opposed to the european dictate which is to impose on the peoples of europe political and economic orientations which are not their own. the european union is a totalitarian organisation which flouts individual freedoms and the national sovereignty of the member states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european commission's annual communications 2012 and 2013 on the application of eu law. these communications focus on the member states' compliance with their obligations to transpose european directives. it considers that the text has been considerably improved during the negotiations. it follows that effective application of union law is essential if the union is to achieve its policy objectives. the report also stresses the importance of the commission and the member states respecting their respective competences and responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 30th and 31st annual reports on the enforcement of the law in the european union as these reports allow the european commission to monitor the proper implementation of eu primary law by the individual member states while granting citizens essential rights (complaints and petitions) regarding the respect of rights in the union.
in writing. - i voted against these reports. they take stock of all infringement procedures initiated by the commission against member states for delay in transposing or incorrect transposition of directives. fundamentally, we are against the very idea that the eu can condemn member states because they have not been able, or have not wanted, to transpose a european text into their national legislation. these reports make matters worse, since they advocate the use of mechanisms enabling the court of justice, at the mere request of the commission, to condemn states without even a second judgment. we are firmly opposed to this idea.
in writing. ‒ these two annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law detail the legal proceedings brought against member states for not transposing european commission directives quickly enough. in this context, the european court of justice has delivered 31 judgments against member states, mainly in areas relating to consumer protection, the environment, transport or the internal market. the text recalls that the member states have an obligation to transpose fully and effectively the commission's directives. if not, the lisbon treaty provides that the court of justice can sanction countries that do not respect european law. the report even recommends that these sanctions be tightened. we are firmly opposed to the european dictate which is to impose on the peoples of europe political and economic orientations which are not their own. the european union is a totalitarian organisation which flouts individual freedoms and the national sovereignty of the member states. the member therefore voted against.
in writing. this report on the 30th and 31st annual reports on the monitoring of the application of the eu advocates a number of points that i oppose, such as the full transposition and effective implementation of the common european system as a top priority or the fact that the charter of fundamental rights is considered a treaty like any other. but above all, i condemn the introduction by the lisbon treaty of the possibility for the court of justice of the eu, at the request of the commission, to impose penalties for late transposition without waiting for a second judgment or the call on the commission to take stricter measures against late transposition of environmental directives and to use more sanctions. although the report contains some positive measures, such as condemning the obligation on states to privatise certain public assets (which is contrary to article 345 of the feu treaty) and expressing concern about austerity measures, i have decided to vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some positive points, such as the recognition that 'certain policies imposed on member states, in particular the privatisation of public assets, are in direct violation of the principles on which the union is founded'. it also mentions the concern raised by the austerity measures. but it recalls or advocates a number of points to which i strongly oppose: the equal value of the charter of fundamental rights of the union with the treaties, the full transposition and effective implementation of the common european regime as a top priority, the innovation introduced by the treaty of lisbon whereby the court of justice, at the request of the commission, can impose penalties for delay in transposition without waiting for a second judgment, the call on the commission to propose a binding legal instrument on the administrative procedure for dealing with citizens' complaints, the invitation to the commission to take stricter measures against the late transposition of environmental directives and to use more restrictive measures, etc. that is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the follow-up to the 30th and 31st annual reports on the application of european union law. the purpose of these reports is to analyse the member states' compliance with their obligations to transpose european directives.
in writing. the european commission, the guardian of the treaties, has published the 30th and 31st reports on monitoring the application of eu law, which highlight the shortcomings in transposition by the member states. where they exist, these failings create disparities between countries and difficulties for european citizens, particularly for businesses, who want a clear, reliable and predictable regulatory framework. the report by mr chrysogonos welcomes the commission's monitoring work and calls on it to put in place new procedures to help resolve the problems. the report also affirms the role of the european parliament in monitoring the application of legislation, calling in particular for the creation, within its competent directorates-general, of an autonomous system for evaluating the ex post impact of the main european legislative acts. finally, it is concerned about the effect of austerity policies on the ability of states to fulfil their obligation to apply eu law. that is why i supported this report.
chairman of the special committee on tax remissions and other measures similar in nature or effect. mr president, what mr zanni has just said is correct. we have scheduled a joint hearing with the econ committee president gualtieri is here and the taxe committee on the taxe committee's mandate, i.e. the taxation of multinationals, in the presence of the president of the european commission and commissioner moscovici. the pre-summer emergencies - which were already immigration, then greece - have led us to postpone this hearing twice. this one has to be tomorrow. i trust you, mr president, and the bureau, to ensure that the decision to be taken now, at 11 a.m., is fully compatible with the possibility for our two committees to hear president juncker and mr moscovici for the scheduled time of one and a half hours. i believe that, for reasons of protocol and courtesy, this is a role that falls to you and i have complete confidence in you.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of august, angela merkel opened germany's borders wide to migrants and said she wanted to welcome 800 000 of them. fifteen days later, the german chancellor was faced with the wall of reality, and she was forced to make an impressive headline, suspending schengen and sending police to her borders to stop the influx of illegal immigrants she had triggered. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have unleashed a phenomenon of airborne noise which you cannot control and which will overwhelm us! you will take responsibility for this to history. this madness must be stopped now, by a firm and clear policy, australian-style, so that the tide will dry up, while there is still time, and this chaos will end! when you are wrong, you try to stop me from speaking, but believe me, the people of europe hear me! on monday, the emergency meeting of interior ministers on the migration crisis in the european union resulted in a complete disagreement between those who want to impose migrant quotas and those who refuse. germany, through its minister of the interior, immediately threatened financial sanctions against those who refused. this blackmail is completely indecent. it is now president schulz, the socialist president, who is making an undemocratic and unbearable coup, with the complicity of the pse and the epp, by imposing an emergency vote. but france - because i am interested in france, sorry - has very big problems of assimilation, but also 7 million unemployed, 10 million poor, 1.5 million households waiting for social housing. she can't take anyone. it is therefore absolutely necessary to put an end to the schengen system once and for all, to allow each country to control its borders and each people to make its own free choices. before you, europe was peace! today, it is a war of influence, an economic war, antagonisms and conflicts between european countries. what a success!
madam president, under the rules of procedure, i do not have to be called a fascist in this house, especially by someone who comes from a political movement that has 100 million deaths on its conscience.
madam president, failure, fiasco, setbacks... there is no shortage of words to comment on monday's council. expectations were high for this meeting. it's a waste. so it is the next one, on 22 september, that may offer us a last-chance solution. but i don't really feel like commenting on the comments about a meeting because what is really at stake is whether the european union can pass its crash test or whether it is on the verge of a sudden shutdown. this is a real assumption in the context of the current humanitarian crisis. the fractures in europe are growing, the misunderstandings are getting worse, the decisions are becoming less and less common and more and more unilateral. too many member states are turning their backs on the common asylum policy, which exists and can be exercised, while lamenting the absence of a common migration policy. that's totally inconsistent. in the meantime, the displaced persons are on european territory and the protection system is not working quickly enough. two final remarks: we must talk to the relevant actors at international level. federica mogherini is convinced of this, and others are too. we have to help them. we have to anticipate before we even agree, if we can. member states must ensure that refugees are given dignified and controlled reception and integration conditions.
madam president, yes, europe must play its full part in welcoming refugees so as not to leave the burden of taking them on the shoulders of the countries neighbouring syria. but this deal has to be arranged. and we have, in my view, two real emergencies before us. the first is to set up reception and control centres at the external borders of the union to identify and register those who arrive, to interview them and to grant them temporary admission to the european union. the second urgent need is the capacity to receive refugees on the ground, especially in transit countries. i was there a few days ago with my colleague nathalie griesbeck. the needs are immense: hardwood structures, blankets, doctors, sanitation, water, interpreters and lawyers. it is to these two questions - external borders and reception, particularly in transit countries - that we want, that we now demand, concrete, rapid and effective answers in the hours and days to come.
in writing. the justice and home affairs council (jha) was a failure, and that is all the better since the commission intended to impose a mandatory policy of relocating across europe the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants who are now flocking to its doors. i want to denounce the attitude of mrs merkel, who is closing her borders after she herself promised the moon to 800 000 of these immigrants. it certainly did not take a great clergyman to anticipate the consequences of the chancellor's irresponsible remarks. i'm sure the german reception services are overwhelmed. but this turn of events sounds like a new threat to those member states which do not want these immigrants. it is in addition to the very explicit threat of cutting european funds to them or the more veiled threat of depriving their citizens of the right to free movement. the threat is to lock up all these people in their homes so that the systematic, calculated and imposed quotas from brussels will appear to be the lesser evil to the recalcitrant states. that this parliament should add its little stone to this blackmail, by adopting in haste and without changing a single comma, an opinion on the text rejected by the council is a scandal and an unacceptable coup de force.
in writing. france now has over 5 million unemployed and almost 9 million people living below the poverty line. the unemployment rate is skyrocketing quarter after quarter. this is more than 200,000 immigrants who enter the country every year, and this is done on the basis of legal immigration alone and only adults are included. the growth of my country has come to a standstill, the ultra-liberal dogma promoted by brussels has led to deindustrialisation and social breakdown in our country. the european directive on the posting of workers has created a totally unfair competition in our national labour market... and now the president of the commission is asking us to take in tens of thousands of migrants, then, of course, hundreds of thousands and finally how many millions? france cannot accept these illegals. the european union, on the other hand, does not seem to be concerned about the fundamental issues raised by this sudden influx of migrants. what states or organizations are behind these displacements? who is funding this and for what purposes? these are the legitimate questions to which the union must now respond.
in writing. it is regrettable that the council has once again failed to agree on the urgent relocation of 120 000 asylum seekers. it is also very worrying that only a few member states have expressed support for this proposal. in the face of the humanitarian emergency that is raging on our doorstep and within our own ranks, the time for hesitation is over. we can no longer afford to multiply meetings of the last chance. member states that are reluctant to take in refugees are undermining our credibility abroad and threatening to bring about the end of the union. it is shameful to play the card of retreat when it is a matter of saving the lives of hundreds of thousands of children, women and men fleeing war and persecution. beyond the dignified reception and integration conditions to be ensured, the european union and its member states are also expected to strengthen development cooperation with countries such as jordan, lebanon and turkey, which are hosting millions of refugees. the union is not only a large market which serves only to distribute wealth, it is also a common project with values to defend.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite symbolic that the most important international climate summit since kyoto is taking place at a time when we are redefining international action for development. with the new york conference on the post-2015 development goals just weeks away and the cop21 in paris just months away, we must state it forcefully: the goals of the post-2015 agenda will be put at risk if we do not find a binding agreement in paris. that is the sense of what we propose in the report, which you, mr minister, mr president, have just emphasized. in this european parliament report on cop21, we are advocating a legally binding agreement to limit the temperature increase to two degrees, the establishment, as soon as possible, of an operational green fund of $100 billion per year to combat the effects of climate change and also the development of credible ways to go beyond mere contributions from development aid and thus to feed the green fund with innovative financing. i therefore urge the countries negotiating the financial transaction tax to allocate part of this revenue to the fight against climate change.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner for agriculture, the aid proposed today, namely eur 420 million for milk, represents less than 3 cents per litre of milk, whereas the reduction for producers is between 20 and 30% in each country. to propose storage today is to return to the policies of the 1970s with piles of butter and piles of meat in the fridge. finally, it is irresponsible to want to export when we are going to export to countries where production costs are even lower. in fact, these countries have already reduced their imports. i therefore want to say to you today that this measure is absolutely not the answer. producers now want prices that cover their production costs. producers today want production control tools to regulate supply and demand. we must also get rid of the irresponsible logic that openness to the market will be the solution. so today i'm ashamed! i am ashamed of the ministers of agriculture who signed this agreement! i am ashamed of the european commission for continuing to justify this policy and i find it unacceptable that farmers are treated in this way when today it is the sector with the highest number of suicides. today i find that unacceptable and therefore tear up this irresponsible document!
mr president, commissioner, i am afraid that the measures you propose in your package do not solve the fundamental problem facing farmers, who do not ask for aid but for prices that enable them to live off their work. i was hoping that you would propose in the short term an increase in the intervention price for milk and the lifting of the russian health embargo on pigs, but none of that has been proposed. the storage, flexibility and promotion measures will be inadequate, even ineffective and costly for european taxpayers, because agricultural prices will continue to fall and nothing will be settled, either in the short or long term. it is time, commissioner, for the commission to abandon its liberal ideology and to realise that without a common public agricultural policy and without regulation of agricultural markets, there is a great risk that tomorrow there will be no more farmers in our territories to feed the 500 million europeans.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, we are pleased to have you, commissioner, in good health, with us this evening. i know that this is not a very pleasant time for you and your team, but it is nothing compared to the disarray that dairy farmers, pig farmers and beef farmers are experiencing at the moment. everyone has their share of responsibility. as regards the intervention price, it should be recalled that the council requested that it be fixed itself when the cap was reformed. so we are now waiting for action because, indeed, the price of milk has fallen to levels where it no longer pays. and i would remind you that the reform of the cap allows you to take account not only of the market price but also of the level of charges. you, commissioner, have an article at your disposal, which is article 219. obviously, it's the one you'll be using to set up the $500 million aid you just awarded. but it will probably take three months for the 500 million to reach the pockets of the operators, and how many will have fallen by then? we must also act at fao level to implement the g20 commitments in terms of regulating the volatility of commodity prices. you must commit to this project.
commissioner, minister, i have the impression that you are not listening. you do not hear the cries of anguish, suffering and sometimes despair that rise from our countryside. it is no longer a crisis, as they say, it is a torrent of misfortune that is falling and is hard on the peasants. but the processing industries and the banks are profiting from this situation. you can't just stick to the measures you announced. there is no other solution than to pay labour at basic prices with regulated production volumes. we must also return to the milk quotas. legislation is also needed to stop the processing and retail industries from exploiting the peasant workforce. we must also use all the intervention mechanisms at our disposal for the price of milk, pigmeat, beef and vegetables. it's urgent. i have to go.
mr president, commissioner, i am here at this late hour to draw your attention to a matter which is essential for the very future of agriculture in réunion and, in particular, of sugar cane. you know that a trade agreement has been signed between the european union and vietnam, providing for a tariff quota of 20 000 tonnes for liberalization. i must say that we were astonished to learn that there was no provision in this agreement for the exclusion of special sugars, contrary to the commitments made by the european commission and the assurances you gave us that we would also do everything possible to protect the outermost regions in these trade agreements. there are a few days left in the drafting of the details of this agreement to decide that these special sugars are excluded from this agreement or, at a minimum, to find the mechanisms to ensure that the entry of vietnamese special sugars into the european market is limited.
in writing. this debate on the current crisis in the agricultural sector in europe and france does not in any way resolve the situation of thousands of producers and farmers who are waiting for this european union to introduce another agricultural policy, allowing them to live with dignity from their production with minimum purchase prices rather than survive thanks to new subsidies distributed in an emergency. the end of the measures against russia would also allow the lifting of the embargo on our agricultural products and would give oxygen back to our agriculture. the commission must realise that it cannot continue to run ahead with its liberal ideology. we must return to better regulation of markets, to responsible public procurement to support our producers and to strict control of our imports so as not to put our agriculture in competition with intensive farms like those in the united states which do not have the same health or social standards as ours and thus compete unfairly with our producers.
in writing. the commission's 2016 work programme is not surprising and continues the path it has been following for several years, far from the european ideal of economic prosperity, security and peace. the technocrats in brussels, with the complicity of the elected representatives of the majority groups epp, pse and adle, are literally selling our europe to the markets and lobbies and leaving the european union in a catastrophic situation with the recent 'migrant' crisis. it is high time we opened our eyes and made a radical change in policy. the juncker plan will not be enough and is just another ploy to hide the real problems. the europe of free and sovereign nations, which i defend, will set clear priorities: smes and small and mediumsized enterprises, safeguarding our jobs, our agriculture and our values, fighting cynical international treaties such as ttip, which i reject, and protecting our fellow citizens from immigration that we can no longer absorb. i therefore vote against this commission's work programme for 2016 because we cannot be both the arsonist and the fireman in this crisis.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution sets out the broad political guidelines of the european commission for 2016. some of their objectives are commendable, such as the desire to promote the development of smes and the energy transition, to combat mass unemployment, especially among young people, and to reduce social inequalities. however, the solutions advocated to achieve these objectives will produce the opposite of the desired effects. the report calls for strengthening the single market, the mobility of workers and support for the removal of all obstacles to international trade, which are sacrosanct, when it is these policies that have led to the disastrous macroeconomic consequences that many member states of the union are experiencing. the commissioners in brussels also want to continue the work on cooperation with local authorities, which has helped to reduce the weight of nation states. the structural funds are drawn by the large cities at the expense of the less-favoured areas and therefore do not reduce regional disparities. the european commission has not learned from its mistakes and is dogmatically pursuing a policy of death. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2016. the situation we are in today requires quick and effective responses in terms of migration policy, taxation and the digital single market. this is the second year of the commission's mandate under the presidency of jean-claude juncker. we expect a programme as ambitious as last year, which meets our most pressing expectations. the european parliament will remain vigilant in the implementation of this programme and will make full use of its power as co-legislator.
in writing. ‒ this text sets out the commission's priorities for its work in 2016. the european parliament was invited to give its opinion on these priorities. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it makes growth, employment and investment the main focus of the commission's work, with a particular emphasis on the digital single market. the migration component is also present in the commission document, which is aware that the migration crisis is one of the main issues of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the commission's work programme for 2016, because this text sums up and claims in a way everything that is wrong in the european union. on asylum and immigration, for example, it rejected 'any measure which de facto reintroduces border controls, endangering the schengen area' but did not bring any solution to the problem. it also calls for a revision of the european 'blue card' to offer the prospect of legal migration to the european union, which already has more than 26 million unemployed. as regards the euro, paragraph 79 of the resolution calls on the commission to propose 'an ambitious project which brings together all the measures necessary to improve the resilience of economic and monetary union (emu) and transform it into a framework which allows for better coordination and enhanced structural convergence, through the community method'. in other words, the european union is being given additional powers to the detriment of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this joint resolution by the right and the social democrats urges the commission to make full use of its right of initiative to give the union a clear direction, in particular by completing the single market and producing the strategic roadmap for economic and political union and external action. i am opposed to the commission's initiative, which is necessarily harmful to the sovereignty of the peoples and their interests because of its role as guardian of the ordo-liberalism promulgated by the budgetary treaties. its work programme is aimed solely at strengthening competition which 'favours innovation' and promoting worker mobility through the application of the posted workers directive. the text praises free trade agreements, which are essential 'to create a competitive european economic framework'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i am voting against this 'work programme' which promises us another year of austerity.
in writing. ‒ the enf group voted strongly against this work programme, which details the commission's roadmap for 2016. a number of points are unacceptable, such as the policy of forcibly taking in illegal immigrants from the middle east, imposed on the states, or the call for economic governance which further deprives the states of their sovereignty, among others. in general, this road map follows, unsurprisingly, the same trend as in previous years and leads to ever-increasing federalism in the service of the brussels technocracy and its policies, which have proved to be totally ineffective in the last decades, both economically and socially.
in writing. this text sets out the european commission's work programme for 2016 and calls in particular for the relaunch of the euro-liberal strategy europe 2020 and the swift implementation of the report of the five presidents on the federalisation of the euro area, a project as utopian as it is disastrous. this resolution is adorned with all the virtues of democracy 'to meet the most urgent expectations of citizens' while this parliament is nothing but 'a parody of democracy without a people'. i am not sure that the citizens of the countries of the european union agree to support the competition between states, the policy of welcoming the influx of migrants, the removal of all customs barriers, ttip, or to encourage the mobility of workers which is nothing more than a quasi-forced expatriation etc... in short, the commission has no legitimacy to legislate on these matters when we consider the harmful consequences of its choices on the member states. finally, by denying the very existence of the european commission, i naturally oppose this text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's proposal to focus on 10 strategic priorities. i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on better ways of legislating and assessing the impact of draft legislation, particularly in economic, social and environmental terms. the report calls on the commission to present a proposal for the next phase of the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs and to make full use of the european fund for strategic investments. employment must remain the priority for the commission's action.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the joint resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. this document sets out parliament's priorities and the direction the commission should take. i voted in favour of this text because it supported, among other things, the recovery of growth, the promotion of the competitiveness of smes and the fight against unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. the union is facing and must respond to a number of challenges. the european commission's work programme is decisive in this respect, since it will determine the union's actions for the coming year. we need a clear vision and there is no shortage of work to be done: to create a new dynamic for jobs, growth and investment, to respond with responsibility and dignity to the issue of migration, to achieve greater integration within economic and monetary union. we also need to manage the transition to the digital society, establish an energy union that respects climate and environmental commitments, create a europe that is strong diplomatically, guarantee a judicial area in which european citizens are safe, etc. all this against the backdrop of the need to take political decisions that take precedence over technical considerations. the resolution essentially takes up these priorities, and for that reason i voted in favour.
in writing. this text on the council decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy, greece and hungary is intended to make it possible to relocate 120 000 migrants from the three countries mentioned above to other european countries. this solution is not viable in the short or long term, since it will shift the costs to other member states which can no longer afford to take in new immigrants and will also allow the arrival of more and more immigrants attracted by the benefits of such policies. the eu should instead be as firm as australia and finally abolish schengen as mrs merkel is now advocating in germany by controlling its borders when she was delighted two weeks ago to welcome 800 000 new immigrants. in france, we have 7 million unemployed, 10 million poor and 1.5 million households waiting for social housing. in the face of this, we are being asked to take in (in addition to the usual immigration) 24,000 more refugees when the situation simply no longer allows it. i therefore naturally voted against this decision.
in writing. ‒ italy, greece and hungary are completely overwhelmed by the influx of illegal migrants. in the face of this unprecedented migration crisis, the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, has found nothing better than to call for an emergency vote on the implementation of the relocation mechanism, which consists in distributing more than 120 000 migrants among the other member states of the union or in imposing a fine on the recalcitrant states, the amount of which is equivalent to 0.002% of their gdp. the various reception policies already amount to more than 780 million euros, and this amount will only increase in the coming months, given the air appeal generated by these irresponsible decisions. i was shocked by the voting procedure imposed on the slaughterhouse by the president of the european parliament and by the financial support for the reception of thousands of illegal immigrants, and i naturally voted against this legislative resolution, unlike the centrist, environmentalist and socialist members of the ump/lr who voted in favour or abstained.
in writing. ‒ the commission and the council urgently consulted the european parliament on interim measures to relocate 120 000 refugees from italy, greece and hungary. these three countries do not have to cope alone with the migratory pressure that the european union is currently undergoing. we must show solidarity and act quickly in the face of this situation which is worsening by the day. member states must draw up as soon as possible a concrete action plan to respond to this emergency, but also to avoid similar crises in the future. the approach of jean-claude juncker is very commendable in this respect. i voted in favour of this resolution. i also welcome the recent decision by the council to relocate these 120 000 refugees.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on thursday on the proposal to establish a temporary distribution mechanism for refugees from italy, greece and hungary. solidarity with political refugees is of course necessary and the right to asylum is an inalienable right. however, the introduction of binding quotas, the possibility for refugees to challenge relocation decisions and a system of classification by asylum seekers of countries of preference would encourage large-scale migration movements, creating an "air call" that european countries would not be able to face with dignity. in the absence of any common european policy on asylum and immigration, in the absence of systematically reinforced checks at the external borders of the european union, in the absence of effective arrangements for the treatment of genuine asylum seekers and for combating fraud in the right to asylum, the imposition of binding quotas for the reception of refugees seems to me to be at least premature and hasty.
in writing. on behalf of the front national members, i strongly protest against the vote on thursday 17 september on the new commission proposal to relocate 120 000 migrants throughout the european union. the president of parliament, mr schulz, and the political groups who supported his proposal to hold this vote in haste were well aware that some member states such as hungary, the czech republic and slovakia were firmly opposed to the commission's proposal. in his unwavering commitment to the emergency procedure, mr schulz abused his power. it has used parliament as a means of pressure against member states wishing to protect their borders. he called for an emergency vote on thursday, while parliament was in session the day before. it refused to allow parliament to consider the commission's proposal in its proper form. the commission has also decided to reject an amendment by the enl group which was critical of the commission. all this is unworthy of a parliament which calls itself democratic.
in writing. ‒ the european union knows what urgency is when it comes to imposing disguised and massive economic immigration on the people. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas. in practical terms, member states will have to take in such persons in accordance with a scale defined by the commission. the member states are therefore less free than ever to decide their own migration policies and to control their schengen borders. this text is an illustration of the arrogance of brussels, which, not content with its beatific angelism in the face of the uncontrolled influx of pseudo-refugees, is imposing on the peoples of europe, who are suffering from austerity and the crisis, the welcome of new economic migrants, who will come to weigh on the social accounts and compete with them on the labour market. the elected representatives of the enl group are therefore resolutely against this decision.
in writing. this vote is a wonderful exercise in the conformity of the european institutions, where the epp and the social democrats, hand in hand, have called for a vote in favour of the commission's proposal on the distribution of 120,000 new migrants. but then why do we have to share these migrants as a burden since they remind us all day long that immigration is a wealth? the commission proposal would therefore see a total of 160 000 asylum seekers being moved from italy, greece and hungary (this is only the beginning, given that several hundred thousand migrants are waiting to join the eu). worse, this text supports the mandatory distribution of migrants between states, based on a distribution key that is at least ignoble. the eu is in crisis and in near structural recession, and this text proposes to pay out €6,000 per relocated migrant. to paraphrase rousseau, "such a europeanist loves the tartars, to be exempted from loving his fellow citizens". i have therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the urgent proposal to relocate 120 000 asylum seekers from italy, greece and hungary between the member states of the european union. we are responding in record time to the european commission's proposal of 9 september; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the emergency plan is implemented. europe must remain an area of solidarity while acting to better control its external borders and have a coherent refugee reception policy.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal introduces a mechanism for distributing illegal immigrants among the member states without regard to their wishes. it is not only a clear attack on democracy but also a particularly stupid one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. most of them know very well which country they want to go to and, if the dangers of the mediterranean have not stopped them, it is hard to see how the commission's wishes could be achieved, especially since the dogma of free movement in the schengen area is not even called into question. like most french people, i don't want france to welcome migrants while millions of poor and unemployed people suffer every day. i am even more opposed to the commission's aberrant dictates. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution on the council decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy, greece and hungary. however, i abstained on this text because some measures which are too restrictive could undermine the stability of the union. i am against mandatory and permanent quotas. first of all, i think the union needs to rethink its migration policy.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, which validates the new emergency relocation measures proposed by the commission for the benefit of 120 000 asylum seekers from italy, greece and hungary, the european parliament is sending a strong message to the member states. a determined call for urgent adoption of realistic and ambitious solutions, respectful of our legal obligations and commitments, to give full meaning to the right of asylum and the principle of non-refoulement. it is unthinkable that the next meeting of the interior ministers on 22 september will result in another failure. inaction is an option to be banned; we don't have time to split up anymore. although i regret the way in which this approval was given, in an accelerated procedure which did not allow parliament to deal in detail with this essential matter, it was important to defend these mandatory solidarity measures and to make the council face up to its responsibilities. the fact that meps supported the commission's proposal without amending it does not prejudge their position on the permanent and compulsory relocation mechanism, on which parliament will co-decide on an equal footing with the member states.
madam president, i would like to say that i generally support all initiatives which seek to condemn selective justice. what i would like is for us to also look, in line with what our colleagues in the epp are saying, at the selective justice system as it is practised within the european union: for example, the selective justice system in greece, against the golden dawn members, for example, the selective justice system in germany, the selective justice system in france, precisely because of laws that are liberticidal. all this would be a very favourable subject for action by our parliament. (the president cut the speaker off)
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, we are not here to debate the content of the third memorandum, although there is much to be said on this subject. the only choice left for the greek government was to survive or die. it was the choice of survival that prevailed. this choice of survival consists first of all in meeting immediately the liquidity needs, which we know are sorely lacking, and in being able to commit european funds quickly. it is not urgent to wait for that, but it is urgent to act. that is why we support the accelerated procedure. action is also urgently needed to enable greece to return to investment. it is with this urgency in mind that we are today supporting the exceptional measures proposed by the commission, namely 100% co-financing, the facilitation of pre-financing and the immediate release of european funds. a total of two billion euros. i would also like to say that we see clearly in this regulation that cohesion policy, regional policy, is once again the only policy capable of implementing solidarity. regional policy is the only way to mitigate the disastrous effects of austerity policies.
madam president, allow me a little irony to applaud the ingenuity of our european leaders, because even if i support the proposal, really, to advance one billion euros to greece, to ask it in return to better liquidate its public assets and destroy its social fabric and its pensions, all this without offering any lasting solution to the greek economy, it is definitely not expensive. i would have liked our negotiators to have been as inventive as they were with the americans in the negotiations on the transatlantic treaty, but it seems that europe is strong against the weak and weak against the strong. i know that the commission could not have proposed anything better, but let me put the question not of the soundness of this prefinancing but of its budgetary sincerity. we have 24 billion unpaid bills coming up this year, who's going to pay that billion? which states have taken this decision? we know here that they will not add a single euro. either, again, they will be project promoters who will not see their bills paid for a long time, or this commitment will remain unfulfilled. enough of these decisions by member states without budgetary responsibility. yes, we must vote for this exceptional aid, but the best way to help greece in the long term is to cancel some of this unsustainable and unfair debt.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if those who - and i can see that there are many of them in this house - wished to sacrifice the greeks on the altar of their national public opinion and political revenge had won their bet, we would be discussing humanitarian aid today. since the grexit scenario was buried by the agreement of last july, it is fortunately on the basis of the european structural funds that we are now considering helping the greek economy to regain its colour. let there be no doubt that the third aid package for greece will be used only for servicing the public debt and recapitalising the greek banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so this proposal is a good one, but it will not be enough. the renegotiation of the greek debt and the building of a stronger and more democratic economic and monetary union are two of the conditions for the recovery of greece and for the management of future crises. in inviting president hollande and chancellor merkel to speak here in parliament on wednesday, president schulz has clearly understood the importance of the issues that the greek episode has revealed. we therefore expect them to give a new european impetus to overcome challenges that are just as crucial as those we faced a quarter of a century ago, when the iron curtain fell.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with just a few weeks to go until cop21 in paris, and with the international community having just adopted the new sustainable development goals, this report and this debate are timely. i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur. this text gives us the opportunity to recall the crucial role played by local authorities in defining and implementing european and international development policy. as a provider of basic public services such as health, education, especially water, sanitation, we can see how much the expertise of these authorities in these key areas will count in the success of our commitment to eradicate poverty. the 11th sustainable development goal on cities now allows local authorities to be fully recognised as central actors in international cooperation. i think we can modestly see this as a victory for the european union and especially for our parliament, which for the last 10 years has been constantly stressing the key role of decentralisation and decentralised cooperation in improving the living conditions of the poorest people in the world. the commission must now take up this report and the proposals it contains, in order to promote a development policy based on multi-level governance. as such, it is high time that decentralisation became a fully-fledged sector of financial concentration of the european union for developing countries. i would like to conclude by quoting former un secretary-general kofi annan, who, when the millennium development goals were launched in 2000, stressed that their achievement would be local or not. these words echo with equal force at the dawn of the new objectives that will be ours until 2030.
on behalf of the enf group. ladies and gentlemen, i thank our colleague for his contribution, but i must confess that i am not convinced. this report is first of all a reflection of the failure of previous policies towards states, and particularly african states. over the past 60 years, more than a trillion dollars has been spent on development aid. nearly half of africans still live on less than a dollar a day. in the last half century, wars and massacres have killed ten million people, and there have been eighty coups d'état. eleven countries have been involved in civil wars for 15 years, which have cost, in addition to human lives, nearly two hundred billion dollars, not to mention the corruption which is estimated by the african union at one hundred and fifty billion dollars a year. how can we talk about development aid in these circumstances? a nascent economy requires stable institutions, functioning public services and prospects for young people. addressing the lower communities as we do will not solve anything. to combat corruption, control migration flows and promote development, three priorities are needed: to make aid conditional on a project logic and no longer on a counter logic, to ensure transparency and control in order to eradicate corruption networks and to sanction the actions of multinational companies that prey on raw materials or on markets for juices without consideration for local populations. finally, trust in the new generations who want to be independent and who are struggling to free themselves from local administrative or cultural rigidities. aid for aid purposes will not help if we continue to support structurally corrupt powers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the promoter of the first decentralized cooperation programmes in france, as the founder of the regional development cooperation institute in alsace and champagne-ardenne, as a member and secretary-general of the first national decentralized cooperation commission, and as the promoter of the first decentralized cooperation programmes in europe, also with the support of the european union, i could only support your report. i must say, however, that the european institutions once again have the permanent ability to divert good ideas into being tools of europeanist ideology. a real decentralised cooperation is taking place. i apologise for flaunting my experience in the following way. we must not go beyond the states - we must always intervene with their consent. in this report, decentralised entities are treated as quasi-state actors! the existing decentralised partnerships must be supported and new dynamics promoted, at most by calls for north-south cooperation projects. we must not create artificial voluntaristic dynamics; we must always have a partner in the north and a partner in the south and ask for a supervised responsibility of the local partner in the north in the management of the aid given to the south. just because the partner is local doesn't mean he's not prone to embezzlement. finally, we must deepen this virtuous logic of short circuits - decentralisation is only a means, not an end - to ensure that decentralised cooperation is carried out from civil society to civil society, from hospital to hospital, from the chamber of trades and agriculture to the chamber of trades and agriculture, with the north and the south. then we will be efficient and helpful to development. thirty years have been lost.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 6 october 2015. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the legislation on mortgages and risk financial instruments in the european union: the case of spain, by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000088/2015 - b8-0755/2015) (2015/2740(rsp)).
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 october 2015. ____________1 see minutes written declarations (rule 162) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the reasons for the decision.
the agenda calls for the debate on:- oral question to the commission on the control of exports of dual-use items following the hacking team revelations, by marietje schaake, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-000094/2015 - b8-0756/2015) (2015/2882(rsp)),- oral question to the commission on the control of exports of dual-use items following the hacking team revelations, by david martin and alessia maria mosca, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (ors-000099/2015 - b8-0759/2015) (2015/2882(rsp) and- oral question to the commission on the control of exports of dual-use items following the hacking team revelations, by tiziana beghin and rolandas paksas, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o-000099/2015 - b8-0602/2015 (((o-000082/2015))).
i'm the reporter. madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the first anniversary of this commission and, in this first year of the financial year, we have of course the priorities you have defined: support for smes, strengthening competitiveness, employment. we know and support the commission's commitment to these priorities. so, commissioner, imagine that you have the power to develop the competitiveness of several thousand companies, the vast majority of them smes, and that you can reduce the financial burdens they are forced to bear to combat unfair competition - burdens that sometimes represent up to 40% of their turnover. imagine that you have the power to support the maintenance and development of employment in more than 800 production areas, by increasing job creation by 30%, as has been the case with food geographical indications. imagine if you had a simple, very inexpensive way to offer visibility, export appeal to these companies, up to 25 percent of the international demand. that would be great, wouldn't it? you would not hesitate to use such a tool if it were available to you. well, the good news is that this tool exists and it's already in your hands. by proposing without further ado a legislative instrument to recognise and support european artisanal products, you have at your disposal a simple means of achieving the objectives i have just set out. this is the glowing conclusion of the extensive work carried out by your services over several years. a very thorough study that you published in 2013 supports the economic benefits that i just mentioned. it is also the urgent demand of european smes and european consumers that was expressed most clearly in the responses to your 2014 consultation. finally, i hope that this parliament will send you the same message tomorrow by asking you to include in the internal market strategy, which the commission will publish in the coming weeks, the announcement of a legislative initiative to extend geographical indications to non-agricultural products from 2016. commissioner, at the moment, producers who wish to protect a non-agricultural geographical indication in the european union must apply for it in every member state, where possible, that is to say in just half of them, or else simply renounce such protection. the fact that the name of the company is not used in the community is a sign of the fact that the company is not a genuine company, but a company with a reputation for quality and history. such unfair competition is unacceptable. extending geographical indications to non-agricultural products would be a strong political signal, a firm commitment by the european union to promote its local products. because, more than products, these famous names murano, bohème, savile row, laguiole, solingen are the echo of a story, of a culture. they represent the european heritage, our heritage, and that is why i would ask all my colleagues to confirm as of tomorrow the broad support of the committee on legal affairs for the report i am presenting here tonight. commissioner, the european parliament is waiting for the european commission to come forward on this subject, but, through the members, what is much more important is that european consumers are waiting for you, european smes are counting on you, european citizens are watching you. show them that you're responding to their concerns, that you're providing solutions. commissioner, please don't let them down.
in writing. an extension of geographical indications to non-agricultural products would be a real economic and cultural opportunity in europe. as rapporteur for the epp on the opinion of the committee on international trade on this subject, i would like to point out that direct and indirect employment in the non-agricultural geographical indications sector represents more than 4 million jobs in europe and that in 2010 the estimated value of sales for geographical indications in the european union was eur 54.3 billion, of which eur 11.5 billion was export sales. many european and french products could be affected by this european system, notably the laguiole knife, the calais lace or the cherbourg umbrella. protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products at european level would not only protect our companies from counterfeiting and unfair competition but also guarantee consumers know-how and quality products. the future system will have to be accessible to our enterprises, especially our smes, and therefore simple and inexpensive. the signal to the commission is clear and we expect a legislative initiative from it.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it took several weeks and a horrible picture for the mountain europe to give birth to this mouse. yes to aid to countries facing the refugee crisis outside europe. yes, we also support the aid to countries facing the external borders of europe, such as our italian and hungarian friends, but please stop stigmatising mr orbán's hungary, which, in an emergency, had to react to this storm, while there was cacophony in the council. we must remember that in 1956 austria received in a few weeks 170,000 refugees fleeing communism, while europe of 28 is not capable of making any decisions. how can you not see that we are suffering the consequences of your past mistakes? your blind allegiance to mr. bush's new world order has led to a new world disorder in iraq, syria, libya, egypt, with abominable human dramas where innocent people lose their lives every day. our european organization is not working. your system is paralyzed, sclerosis! there is, as general de gaulle said, only reality in the nation. trust the nations, trust the sovereignty and you will see that efficiency will be much more important.
mr president, the european council of 23 september decided to take in 120 000 refugees, perhaps hastily described as political refugees, which is certainly the case for some, but probably not for the majority. i would like to take this opportunity to speak to you about two genuine political refugees to whom europe does not grant asylum, but whose cases are indisputable. they're edward snowden and julian assange. edward snowden was the whistleblower of the surveillance programs of the united states of america, which are completely illegal, completely unconstitutional, and are being used to our detriment. well, edward snowden wasn't granted political asylum until 2013 in moscow. italy, portugal, spain, france have closed their airspace to president evo morales' plane, fearing that snowden may be on board. so is julian assange, a prisoner in the foreign embassy he is in in london, the ecuadorian embassy, which is guarded day and night by scotland yard, which has cost the british taxpayer £6 million to date. shame on this europe that is submissive, this europe that is lying down, this europe that is a vassal! freedom for snowden, freedom for assange!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been demonstrated that, left to themselves, even the largest member states, even those which have preferred to remain outside schengen, are incapable of dealing with the migration problem. the solutions adopted in panic here and there are divided between the ridiculous, the ridiculous and sometimes the odious. today, there are two mistakes you must not make. the first is to believe that the exodus, whose destination is europe, originates in the civil war in syria and will end with it. for years now, tens of thousands of young men, sometimes entire families, have risked their lives in africa, the middle east, and asia. before the balkan route, there was the sicilian canal. before that, there were the canary islands and there are still ceuta and melilla today. migration flows are going to be a permanent fact of this century. hope or despair throws those who see no future at home onto the streets. the second mistake would be to think that the distribution of asylum seekers, which was finally decided in pain, will solve the problem. it is only the outline of the beginning of the beginning of a comprehensive asylum and immigration policy and a proper foreign policy that all of europe needs. the commission is right to start laying the foundations. the european council would be making a grave mistake if it did not carry the exercise through to the end.
everyone agrees that the council of 23 september, like the jha council of the day before, made it possible to take, even though painfully, some important steps in the union's response to the refugee crisis, but this response must be part of a much longer and more comprehensive process. yes, repeated attendance at meetings should not cause us to lose sight of what is essential. while it is imperative to act and to act quickly, because the humanitarian situation requires it, we must at the same time ensure medium and long-term prospects. that is why i have three questions to put to the commission and the council. migration policy is becoming very operational under the impact of the emergency, but beyond the current choices, the question arises of the extension of this movement. in other words, should we and do we want to make our decisions and practices in this area more community-oriented? secondly, operational measures obviously raise the question of financing in the short, medium and long term. and here the question of the european budget is required. do you think we can continue to develop our policies with the current european budget? finally, as regards the external dimension, the idea being promoted is to settle people seeking international protection in third countries, but what will be the next step? the creation of european flag zones in third countries to identify potential candidates? i would like to know your answers to all of these. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mrs winberg has certainly had the opportunity to attend several meetings of the libe committee, where i believe my group has never changed its position, considering, in this case, that the current emergency must be dealt with while integrating the policy we are pursuing at the moment into something wider and, indeed, long-term. in other words, we must both deal with the source of our present difficulties by talking to the countries concerned and act on integration. from this point of view, yes, madam, we are totally different from the integration policies you advocate, since you advocate none.
mr president, there is no such thing as the european union. the union as i see it, as i want it, united, solidary and generous, does not exist. that is what i have learned from this pathetic council of 23 september. i would like to point out that when the european parliament votes by a large majority in favour of a temporary relocation mechanism, when the president of the commission and his staff work tirelessly to ensure that the member states respond to the refugee crisis in a dignified manner in a spirit of solidarity and cooperation, the member states behave like shopkeepers, withholding, calculating, bargaining and even threatening. the solutions, we know them in part, my colleagues will have recalled them. above all, they require courage and political will. after the greek crisis, the refugee crisis is further undermining the european dream. ladies and gentlemen, heads of state or government, do not push european citizens further into the arms of extremism. stop selling the ideals and the hope of the european union, and get your act together! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer is "blue cardboard". sir, the refugee crisis is the consequence of the chaos in the world and the consequence of our foreign policies, or rather our lack of foreign policy. we have to deal with the immediate. we have to deal with the emergency. as my colleague said, the shame is that the member states have reduced their participation, their development aid and that the funds for emergency humanitarian aid are dry. the humanitarian food program can no longer afford to feed the people in the camps. that's the shame.
the question is "blue cardboard". i am surprised, however, that you are calling some of your colleagues in this house rubbish. the subject is too important for us to be sending each other quibbles like that. you can't deny that this immigration is massive. in its magnitude, it surpasses anything we could fear. so concern about it is not necessarily a sign of racism or xenophobia. i ask you, beyond your insults, do you not think that the states have some reason to be concerned about what is happening? it is understandable that the states are trying to reduce the flow of refugees and i believe that the european union - i ask you if this is your opinion - should also make efforts in this direction to try to fix these flows of refugees in their country of origin by helping them on the spot and not by creating an air raid, as mrs merkel has done.
mr president, we have all agreed for many months now that the challenge for europe, the challenge for the member states is a historic challenge. today, the humanitarian crisis continues to spread not only to the external borders of europe but also to the very heart of europe and to make us question its causes. a few days ago, with marielle de sarnez, we went on the balkan route and what we saw was worthy of the darkest images of the middle of the twentieth century and of the second world war: men, children, women, harassed, exhausted, in distress. they expect from europe, our europe and the member states in particular, to use the words of mr juncker, a response which is first of all a response in terms of immediate aid to ngos and member states, particularly to those states which are located in the heart of europe, such as macedonia and serbia, and, of course, to those states which are on the external borders of europe. the hotspot system must also be coordinated, not only at the external borders but also in the landlocked member states, so that reception can be organised and controlled at the same time as we are responsible for strengthening europe's external borders. these are some of the emergencies on the eve of winter.
mr president, we must stand with the states, humanitarian organizations, local authorities, associations, trade unions, and citizens who help refugees and congratulate them. the european union has a duty to support them and to provide the necessary funds to help these refugees to live, to be housed, to be educated, to be trained and to have access to work. the sums which are indispensable for the disbursement of the funds should also lead to a review of the budgetary policies imposed on the states, the municipalities and the associations. more intensive efforts will probably have to be made to provide international protection for those who are thrown onto the roads by wars and repression and to make the roads safer and not to allow money-hungry smugglers to enrich themselves on the backs of misery and despair. we must also forcefully reiterate the truth that a europe of 500 million people is not invaded by 700 000 refugees, even if we welcome them. our entire history shows that migration has not been a burden but a source of human, cultural and economic wealth.
madam president, i am asking to speak because, on the night of saturday to sunday, the south of france, and particularly the alpes-maritimes, was devastated by a flood. in addition to the immense damage to property, more than 20 people have died and some are still missing. i wish we could have a moment of silence in solidarity. nevertheless, since president hollande will be here tomorrow, i would have liked parliament, together with our distinguished colleagues, to show france and the countries concerned, during its visit tomorrow, this gesture of sympathy and friendship towards our fellow citizens who have died, who have gone.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would first like to thank all those who have contributed to the adoption of this report for the excellent work that has been done and the excellent atmosphere that has prevailed over the past weeks and months. i hope that the european commission will follow very quickly the conclusions of this report and of this house by presenting, in its internal market strategy, a legislative proposal, as we are calling for.
in writing. ‒ one of the eight major conventions of the international labour organization is the 1930 convention on forced labour. last year the international labour conference amended this text to adapt it to the current situation and to strengthen certain provisions aimed in particular at preventing trafficking in human beings. following these changes, a memorandum of understanding was adopted by the stakeholders of the conference. the european parliament was consulted on this text in order to enable the member states to ratify the agreement. i voted in favour of a text which would make it possible to combat forced labour more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because this protocol sets out the measures that ilo member states must take to prevent forced labour: educate and inform people to ensure that the relevant legislation on the prevention of forced labour applies to all workers and all sectors of the economy; to protect persons, in particular migrant workers, from possible abusive or fraudulent practices in the recruitment and placement process, and to address root causes that increase the risk of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratifying the international labour organisation's convention on forced labour: in the age of unbridled globalisation, when the commission is pushing member states to deregulate the labour market, the aim is to protect victims and punish offenders.
in writing. the case is about allowing eu member states to ratify the protocol on forced labour convention of 1930 because 80 years later there are still cases of forced labour which is strictly unacceptable. the convention, which is one of the eight core ilo conventions defining basic labour standards, has been the subject of a protocol to address shortcomings in its implementation and also tackles trafficking in human beings. the provisions of the protocol thus establish the obligation to prevent forced labour and to ensure protection for victims and access to redress mechanisms, such as compensation. more specifically, the protocol aims to: (i) establish decent working conditions; and (ii) protect victims of forced or compulsory labour and punish offenders. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the international labour conference adopted the protocol on the forced labour convention. the aim of the protocol is to establish decent working conditions and to protect victims of forced or compulsory labour and to punish offenders. i voted for this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ more than 80 years after the adoption of the forced labour convention, the international labour organization notes that forced labour continues to flourish. it is estimated that 20 million people worldwide are affected. the protocol strengthens preventive measures to combat forced labour in a sustainable way and aims to protect victims of this scourge. the proposed draft council decision authorises member states to ratify the parts of the protocol which fall within the competence of the european union. we have always opposed forced labour and human trafficking, which are a new form of modern slavery. it would be interesting to see the hard-line defenders of human rights express their indignation at the working conditions in qatar and saudi arabia, where the rules of this convention are being violated. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the forced labour convention is one of the eight core conventions of the international labour organisation, which set the basic standards of international labour. but despite the almost universal ratification of the convention, forced labour still exists today. in 2014, the international labour conference adopted the protocol to the forced labour convention with the aim of addressing implementation gaps and strengthening measures to prevent trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation, as well as protection and compensation for victims of forced labour. the proposed decision aims to enable member states to ratify the protocol to the international labour organisation's convention on forced labour. the provisions of the protocol establish the obligation to prevent forced labour and to ensure protection for victims and access to redress mechanisms, such as compensation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the ratification by the council of the international labour organisation (ilo) convention on forced labour. the protocol, which is part of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, aims in particular to address implementation gaps and to improve progress in the fight against trafficking in forced labour. forced labour still affects 20 million people worldwide (880 000 in europe), and there is a need to combat this practice globally, as well as to provide better protection and compensation for victims. i shared these objectives and supported the report.
in writing. this report does not present any difficulties. the aim is to make the fight against traffickers in human beings more effective by allowing member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the ilo convention on forced labour and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ to better combat traffickers and trafficking situations and to better guarantee the rights of victims, the international labour organisation (ilo) has adopted a new protocol to the existing convention on forced labour. the european union and the member states must ratify this protocol as soon as possible and promote it among their international partners.
in writing. ‒ 85 years after the adoption of the forced labour convention by the international labour organisation, forced labour is unfortunately still a reality in the union. in 2012 there were still one million forced labourers in europe alone. in 2014, the international labour conference adopted a protocol to the convention, with the aim of modernising it and strengthening the international legal framework. it introduces new obligations to prevent forced labour, to protect victims and to provide compensation for material and physical damage. the draft resolution in question was to have this protocol ratified by the governments and parliaments of the member states. by giving more voice to nation states, while allowing for stronger legal constraints on forced labour networks, this recommendation is moving in the right direction. that is why i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it is aimed at combating forced labour.
in writing. ‒ the forced labour convention adopted in 1930 required countries that had ratified it to eliminate forced or compulsory labour in all its forms as soon as possible and to make it punishable by criminal sanctions. nevertheless, more than 80 years later, the ilo estimates that some 21 million people worldwide are victims of forced labor. we know that this form of work generates $150 billion in illegal profits. it is simply intolerable and inhuman. i therefore hope that the 2014 protocol to the ilo convention on forced labour and judicial cooperation in criminal matters will be ratified by member states and strictly implemented. it would strengthen measures to prevent trafficking in human beings for the purpose of exploiting their labour and better guarantee compensation for victims of forced labour. i think that we would thus have an additional instrument to fight against human traffickers, who are a real scourge in europe and the world.
in writing. ‒ one of the eight major conventions of the international labour organization is the 1930 convention on forced labour. last year the international labour conference amended this text to adapt it to the current situation and to strengthen certain provisions aimed in particular at preventing trafficking in human beings. following these changes, a memorandum of understanding was adopted by the stakeholders of the conference. the european parliament was consulted on this text in order to enable the member states to ratify the agreement. i voted in favour of a text which would make it possible to combat forced labour more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague helga stevens to allow the ratification of the international labour organisation's protocol on forced labour. the objective of this 2014 protocol is to address shortcomings in the implementation of the legislation and to strengthen measures to prevent trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation, as well as the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. the aim is to make the fight against trafficking in human beings more effective by allowing member states to ratify the protocol. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because the eradication of human trafficking and forced labour is one of the core values of the european union. the adoption of this protocol will strengthen judicial cooperation between states and make it possible to combat these crimes more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the forced labour convention, 1930, of the international labour organisation as regards articles 1 to 4 of the protocol as regards matters related to judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the aim of the protocol is to establish decent working conditions and to protect victims of forced or compulsory labour and to punish offenders. forced labour is often linked to illegal immigration. the 2014 protocol can therefore also be an instrument against traffickers.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this bill because it fights against forced labour by seeking to protect the victims and punish the perpetrators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol on the ilo convention on forced labour. this 1930 convention provides for the abolition of forced labour throughout the world. however, despite its almost universal ratification, the convention is still not fully applied. the provisions of this new protocol include the obligation to prevent forced labour and to ensure protection for victims and access to redress mechanisms. the protocol also provides for decent working conditions and sanctions for offenders. we are of course in favour of this protocol.
in writing. ‒ the forced labour convention is one of the eight core conventions of the international labour organisation and an important instrument for the defence of human rights worldwide. but more than 80 years after its adoption, 21 million people are still victims of forced labour. the ilo therefore adopted in june 2014 a protocol to improve the fight against trafficking, including protection and compensation for victims and effective sanction systems. it also sets out measures that ilo member states must take to prevent forced labour such as educating and informing people about their rights, especially migrant workers. i regret the procedure whereby the council must first give its consent for the member states to ratify this protocol but i vote in favour of it in order to guarantee equal treatment of victims of this crime throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ one of the eight major conventions of the international labour organization is the 1930 convention on forced labour. last year the international labour conference amended this text to adapt it to the current situation and to strengthen certain provisions aimed in particular at preventing trafficking in human beings. following these changes, a memorandum of understanding was adopted by the stakeholders of the conference. the european parliament was consulted on this text in order to enable the member states to ratify the agreement. this is a text that makes it possible to combat forced labour more effectively. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposed decision aims to enable member states to ratify the protocol to the international labour organisation's convention on forced labour. the provisions of the protocol establish the obligation to prevent forced labour and to ensure protection for victims and access to redress mechanisms, including compensation. more specifically, the protocol aims to establish decent working conditions and to protect victims of forced or compulsory labour and to punish offenders. the recommendation should therefore be supported.
in writing. the case is about allowing eu member states to ratify the protocol on forced labour convention of 1930. the convention, which is one of the eight core ilo conventions defining basic labour standards, has been the subject of a protocol to address shortcomings in its implementation and also tackles trafficking in human beings. indeed, more than 80 years after its adoption, forced labour remains. the protocol envisages in detail the obligation to prevent forced labour and to ensure protection for victims and access to redress mechanisms, such as compensation. it also provides for decent working conditions and protection for victims of forced labour, and sanctions for offenders. i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. i supported this report in support of the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the june 2014 protocol to the forced labour convention of the international labour organisation. forced labour still affects 21 million people today, despite the convention's 80 years of existence. the new protocol strengthens measures to combat trafficking, including measures to protect and compensate victims and punitive measures for perpetrators. it also calls on the member states to ensure prevention through education and information of workers about their rights.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to allow member states to ratify the protocol to the forced labour convention of 1930. the convention is one of the eight core ilo conventions defining basic labour standards. it has been the subject of a protocol to address shortcomings in its implementation and also tackles trafficking in human beings. indeed, more than 80 years after its adoption, forced labour remains. the protocol envisages in detail the obligation to prevent forced labour and to ensure protection for victims and access to redress mechanisms, such as compensation. it also provides for decent working conditions and protection for victims of forced labour, and sanctions for offenders. i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ forced labour is a clear violation of human rights and a problem that not only member states but also international organisations must tackle in a coordinated way. it is therefore necessary to adopt a council decision authorising the member states to ratify the 2014 protocol. the ep's recommendation in this regard therefore has my strong support. i also hope that the protocol will be ratified soon in the member states and that the fight against forced labour will be even more effective.
in writing. ‒ forced labour was abolished in 1930 by the international labour organization (ilo). however, the ilo estimates that there are 21 million people in the world today who are victims of forced labor. it is necessary to continue the fight against this criminal practice at european and international level. in this context, the european parliament approved the ratification by member states of the 2014 protocol to the ilo convention on forced labour and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the aim of this text is to strengthen existing legislation and to help put an end to the exploitation of and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation on the council's decision to authorise member states to ratify the 2014 protocol to the forced labour convention, 1930, of the international labour organisation (ilo). the ilo convention on forced labour is one of a set of eight conventions that seek to define basic international labour standards. yet, the ilo estimates that more than 20 million people worldwide are still victims of forced labour. we must fight with all the necessary firmness against these unacceptable criminal practices. the 2014 protocol, which contains measures to implement and strengthen legislation on prevention, but also on protection and compensation of victims, contributes to this and imposes legal obligations on states parties. the protection of human rights requires a responsible and firm attitude. we must ensure that the ilo criteria are implemented. the resolution was therefore well worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ the forced labour convention is one of the eight core ilo conventions, which define the basic international labour standards. but more than 80 years later, and despite the convention's near universal ratification, forced labour still exists. in 2014, the international labour conference adopted the protocol to the forced labour convention with the aim of addressing implementation gaps and strengthening measures to prevent trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation, as well as protection and compensation for victims of forced labour. the proposed decision aims to enable member states to ratify the protocol to the forced labour convention, 1930, of the international labour organisation (ilo). i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ forced labour is still a reality in the world, with the international labour organisation estimating that nearly 21 million people are victims of forced labour. it is good to re-launch the fight against this situation and to update the legislation to combat forced labour. this is what the protocol adopted by the ilo in 2014 proposes to do. this legally binding instrument is intended to combat 'modern' forms of forced labour. by implementing this protocol, states undertake to develop national policies and plans to combat forced labour, in particular by introducing sanctions obligations against instigators of these crimes, improving the protection and compensation of victims of forced labour. the latter are often the most vulnerable populations, including migrants who are particularly vulnerable to abusive and fraudulent practices. the report submitted to the european parliament proposes ratification of this protocol. i voted in favour of this report because it can improve the binding instruments in the fight against trafficking and make a step forward in respecting human rights.
in writing. ‒ psychotropic substances are extremely dangerous to human life. they are the cause of many failures and can eventually lead to the death of addicted consumers. further research is needed to better assess the harmful effects of these substances. however, we have enough to put them under control. the report aims to establish rules to strictly control the use of 4-methylamphetamine throughout the european union and to develop crossborder cooperation measures between law enforcement and judicial services. as this is a problem which requires the cooperation of all the member states, i think this is a useful text which will facilitate the repression of the trafficking concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because its objective is to promote the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances that threaten the health of europeans.
in writing. ‒ yes, this new psychotropic substance must be subject to control measures throughout the european union. this will require improved crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and the bodies responsible for protecting our citizens. that is why i voted in favour of this decision.
in writing. ‒ 4-methylamphetamine is a synthetic ring-methylated derivative of amphetamine. it originated in the illicit market for amphetamines, where it is sold and consumed as amphetamine, a controlled drug. a total of 21 deaths were recorded in four member states, in which 4-methylamphetamine alone or in combination with one or more other substances, particularly amphetamine, was detected in postmortem samples. that report shall invite member states to subject the new psychoactive substance 4-methylamphetamine to control measures throughout the union. i voted in favour of this report because of the health risks it poses.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to subject the psychotropic substance 4-methylamphetamine to control measures throughout the european union. the fact that this substance has already caused ten deaths suggests that it is dangerous enough to require better controls on its use. it is clear that further studies are needed to better understand the health risks to individuals after ingestion. it is essential that these controls be introduced at european level so as not to hinder cross-border cooperation between the various national services. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to introduce control measures for new psychotropic substances, the use of which has already caused dozens of deaths in control measures across the eu. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks, but it is clear that the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for subjecting these substances to control measures throughout the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the implementation of the decision subjecting 4-methylamphetamine to control measures in the member states. these new substances are dangerous, having caused a large number of deaths and poisonings. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it will help to protect european citizens better.
in writing. ‒ 4-methylamphetamine is a psychoactive substance that damages the central nervous system and impairs mental function. it is now legal and available on the internet, replacing 'traditional' drugs and spreading through the internal market. from now on, this substance should only be used for scientific research and development. it will be subject to a permanent restriction and will be subject to the provisions of the union's criminal law, which is consistent with the application of the european precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is in favour of better control of this substance.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementing decisions which aim to introduce control measures at the eu's borders on certain psychoactive substances. these substances, whose marketing is facilitated by the internet, are now spreading in a worrying way in europe. since their use is not well controlled and their effects are unknown, the national authorities of several member states have recorded several cases of deaths and accidents directly or indirectly linked to the consumption of these substances. i therefore agree with the analysis that these substances should be strictly regulated and that their sale and use in the european union should be restricted as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ psychotropic substances have already caused several deaths. further research is needed to define the health and social risks. the report aims to subject 4-methylamphetamine to control measures across the european union and to develop crossborder cooperation measures between law enforcement and judicial services. the report also provides for better protection of the public against the risks caused by the consumption of these substances. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr michal boni, on the decision to continue the controls recommended by the commission and the council on 4-methylamphetamine in the member states because of the toxicity of this substance, which has sometimes led to deaths. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because 4-methylamphetamine is a product which appears to present a high risk to human health and therefore needs to be subject to additional controls and research.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 4-methylamphetamine to control measures. a total of 21 deaths have already been recorded in four member states, in which 4-methylamphetamine alone or in combination with one or more other substances was detected in post-mortem samples. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks of this psychotropic substance, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for subjecting it to control measures throughout the european union. this would avoid obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to protecting the public from the risks associated with the use of these substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it protects the european people, through crossborder police cooperation, against this new psychotropic substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for control measures. studies have shown that 4-methylamphetamine has already caused dozens of deaths and, although further research is needed, this is already sufficient to impose control measures across the european union. this will help to protect the public from the risks associated with this substance.
in writing. ‒ with the manipulation of synthetic molecules new psychoactive substances are appearing. 4-methylamphetamine is one of these substances, derived from amphetamines and with no known therapeutic use it is now used as a substitute for amphetamines in the illicit drug trade. this substance poses a significant health risk because of its toxicity to the body and its apparent similarity to amphetamines. the report before us supports the council's proposal to subject this substance to control measures. because of the health risks it poses, as demonstrated by its discovery in several death cases, i vote for
in writing. - psychotropic substances have already caused deaths. further research is needed to define the health and social risks. the report aims to subject 4-methylamphetamine to control measures across the european union and to develop crossborder cooperation measures between law enforcement and judicial services. and the protection of the public from the risks caused by the consumption of these substances. the member voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ four reports are proposed at this session to bring new psychotropic substances under control across the eu. the products concerned are 4-methylamphetamine, 5-(2-aminopropyl) indole, 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine, and 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. each of these substances has already caused dozens of deaths. further research is needed to identify the exact health risks, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for monitoring measures throughout the european union. the aim of these decisions is to avoid obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to provide a conservative approach to protecting the public from the risks associated with the use of these substances. these initiatives should therefore be supported.
in writing. this vote concerns one of four reports on the subjecting of new psychotropic substances to control measures throughout the union. these substances are 4-methylamphetamine, 5-(2-aminopropyl) indole, 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine, and 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. they are a public health problem, as they are responsible for the deaths of dozens of people. while further scientific studies are needed to determine the exact health risks, it appears that the initial elements are sufficient to constitute legitimate grounds for subjecting these substances to controls in the union to avoid potential obstacles to cross-border cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i supported this report approving the council text calling on the member states to subject the substance 4-methylamphetamine to control measures by the european union and to establish exchanges between states on the risks and analyses related to this substance. since this drug has psychostimulating and highly addictive properties, it is urgent that its control be generalized and harmonised at european level. the report therefore calls on the member states to legislate on the matter within the next 12 months.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns one of four reports on the subjecting of new psychotropic substances to control measures across the eu. these substances are 4-methylamphetamine, 5-(2-aminopropyl) indole, 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine, and 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. they are a public health problem, as they are responsible for the deaths of dozens of people. while further scientific studies are needed to determine the exact health risks, it appears that the initial elements are sufficient to constitute legitimate grounds for subjecting these substances to controls in the eu to avoid potential obstacles to cross-border cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the union plays a crucial role in harmonising the substances authorised within its territory. the successive legislation authorizing or prohibiting the circulation of certain chemicals considered dangerous is intended to protect the health of european citizens. in this context, the european parliament has supported the council's position to subject 4-methylamphetamine to control measures, and i welcome this.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at subjecting new psychotropic substances to control measures throughout the eu. this substance has already caused dozens of deaths. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for monitoring measures throughout the european union. this would avoid obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to protecting the public from the risks associated with the use of these substances. i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ psychotropic substances are extremely dangerous to human life. they are the cause of many failures and can eventually lead to the death of addicted consumers. further research is needed to better assess the harmful effects of these substances. however, we have enough to put them under control. the report aims to establish rules to strictly control the use of 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole throughout the european union and to develop measures for cross-border cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services. as this is a problem which requires the cooperation of all the member states, i think this is a useful text which will facilitate the repression of the trafficking concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because its objective is to promote the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances that threaten the health of europeans.
in writing. ‒ yes, this new psychotropic substance must be subject to control measures throughout the european union. this will require improved crossborder cooperation between law enforcement agencies and our respective citizens' protection agencies. that is why i voted in favour of this decision. it cannot be repeated enough how useful cooperation between our member states has become as necessary after the abolition of the internal borders of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the substance 5-(2-aminopropyl) indole is a synthetic derivative of indole, substituted on the phenyl side of the indole part of the molecule. it is a stimulant substance that can also produce hallucinogenic effects. it is available for sale on the internet and in specialist shops. between april and august 2012, 24 deaths were reported in four member states in which 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole, either alone or in combination with other substances, was detected in post-mortem samples. however, due to the health risks it poses, as evidenced by its detection in several reported deaths, this report proposes to invite member states to subject this substance to control measures throughout the eu. in view of this information, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to subject the psychotropic substance 5-[2-aminopropyl] indole to control measures throughout the european union. the fact that this substance has already caused ten deaths suggests that it is dangerous enough to require better controls on its use. it is clear that further studies are needed to better understand the health risks to individuals after ingestion. it is essential that these controls be introduced at european level so as not to hinder cross-border cooperation between the various national services. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to introduce control measures for new psychotropic substances, the use of which has already caused dozens of deaths in control measures across the eu. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks, but it is clear that the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for subjecting these substances to control measures throughout the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the implementation of the decision to subject 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole to control measures in the member states. these new substances are dangerous, having caused a large number of deaths and poisonings. i believe that this report contributes to a better protection of european citizens and i have supported it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. it is desirable that 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole be subject to control measures in all member states of the union, because this substance may have harmful effects in humans.
in writing. ‒ 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole is a psychoactive substance that damages the central nervous system and impairs mental functions. it is now legal and available on the internet, replacing 'traditional' drugs and spreading through the internal market. from now on, this substance should only be used for scientific research and development. it will be subject to a permanent restriction and will be subject to the provisions of the union's criminal law, which is consistent with the application of the european precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is in favour of better control of this substance.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementing decisions which aim to introduce control measures at the eu's borders on certain psychoactive substances. these substances, whose marketing is facilitated by the internet, are now spreading in a worrying way across europe. since their use is not well controlled and their effects are unknown, the national authorities of several member states have recorded several cases of deaths and accidents directly or indirectly linked to the use of these substances. i therefore share the analysis that these substances should be strictly regulated and that their sale and use in the european union should be restricted as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ psychotropic substances have already caused several deaths. further research is needed to define the health and social risks. the report aims to subject 5-[2-aminopropyl] indole to control measures throughout the european union and to develop cross-border cooperation measures between law enforcement and judicial services. the report also provides for better protection of the public against the risks caused by the consumption of these substances. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague teresa jimenez becerril barrio on the decision to continue the controls recommended by the commission and the council on 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole in the member states because of the toxicity of this substance, which has sometimes led to deaths. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole is a substance which is dangerous to health. it must therefore be subjected to control measures and further research must be carried out.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole to control measures. a total of 24 deaths have already been recorded in four member states, in which 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole or in combination with one or more other substances was detected in post-mortem samples. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks of this psychotropic substance, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for subjecting it to control measures throughout the european union. this would avoid obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to protecting the public from the risks associated with the use of these substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it protects the european people, through crossborder police cooperation, against this new psychotropic substance.
in writing. - i voted for this request for control measures. as with the previous substance, 5-{-aminopropyl) indole has already caused dozens of deaths. that is why we want to impose control measures throughout the european union. this will help to protect the public from the risks associated with this substance.
in writing. ‒ new synthetic psychoactive substances are appearing. 5-(2-aminopropyl) indole (or 5-api, 5-it) is a derivative of indole with stimulant effects. it has been considered a narcotic in france since 2013. the report before us supports the council's proposal to subject this substance to control measures. i voted yes.
in writing. - psychotropic substances have already caused deaths. further research is needed to define the health and social risks. the report aims to subject 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole to control measures throughout the european union and to develop cross-border cooperation measures between law enforcement and judicial services. it also aims to protect the public from the risks caused by the consumption of these substances. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ four reports are proposed at this session to bring new psychotropic substances under control across the european union. the products concerned are 4-methylamphetamine, 5-(2-aminopropyl) indole, 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine, and 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. each of these substances has already caused dozens of deaths. further research is needed to determine the exact health risks, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for monitoring measures throughout the european union. the purpose of these decisions is to avoid the emergence of obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to allow the protection of the public from the risks related to the use of these substances in a conservative manner. these initiatives should therefore be supported.
in writing. as with the vote on 4-methylamphetamine, the aim of the vote on 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole is to subject these substances, which are strongly suspected of being harmful to health, to controls throughout the european union and thus to avoid obstacles to cross-border cooperation that may arise. i voted for this text.
in writing. this report confirms parliament's approval of the council text transferring the control competence of the substance aminopropyl to the european union. it called on the member states to legislate on this issue within the next 12 months. the sale of this dangerous psychoactive substance has already been regulated by france, and it is important to strengthen its control under a more general and harmonised authority. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ like the vote on 4-methylamphetamine, this vote on 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole aims to subject these substances, which are strongly suspected of being harmful to health, to controls throughout the european union and thus to avoid obstacles to cross-border cooperation that may arise. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ in view of the potential risks posed by the psychoactive substance 5- ((2-aminopropyl) indole, the european parliament supported the council's position to subject this substance to an enhanced control procedure, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to subject new psychotropic substances to control measures throughout the european union. this substance has already caused dozens of deaths. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for monitoring measures throughout the european union. this would avoid obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to the protection of the public from the risks associated with the use of these substances. i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ psychotropic substances are extremely dangerous to human life. they are the cause of many failures and can eventually lead to the death of addicted consumers. further research is needed to better assess the harmful effects of these substances. however, we have enough to put them under control. the report aims to establish rules to strictly control the use of 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine throughout the european union and to develop crossborder cooperation measures between law enforcement and judicial services. as this is a problem which requires the cooperation of all the member states, i think this is a useful text which will facilitate the repression of the trafficking concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because its objective is to promote the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances that threaten the health of europeans.
in writing. ‒ yes, this new psychotropic substance must be subject to control measures throughout the european union. this will require improved crossborder cooperation between law enforcement agencies and our respective citizens' protection agencies. that is why i voted in favour of this wise decision.
in writing. ‒ 25i-nbome is a potent synthetic derivative, a classic serotonergic hallucinogen, which has been subject to control measures at union level since 2003. there were 4 deaths related to 25i-nbome in three member states and 32 poisonings. ah-7921 is an atypical structure analgesic that can be easily confused with doxylamine, an antihistamine with sedative and hypnotic properties. between 2012 and september 2013, 15 deaths and 6 cases of poisoning were reported in three member states. mdpv is a synthetic substituted-cycle derivative of cathinone and is subject to control measures under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. between september 2009 and august 2013, 108 deaths and 525 cases of poisoning were reported in eight member states and norway. methoxetamine is an analogue of ketamine and phencyclidine, which are internationally controlled substances. in the united kingdom, the number of deaths from methoxetamine-related causes has increased from 6 in 2004 to 20 in 2006. given the risks, this proposal must invite member states to submit this to checks and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to subject 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine, psychotropic substances, to control measures throughout the european union. these substances have already caused about ten deaths, suggesting that they are dangerous enough to require better controls on their use. it is clear that further studies are needed to better understand the health risks to individuals after ingestion of these substances. it is essential that these controls be introduced at european level so as not to hinder cross-border cooperation between the various national services. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to introduce control measures for new psychotropic substances, the use of which has already caused dozens of deaths in control measures across the eu. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks, but it is clear that the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for subjecting these substances to control measures throughout the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the implementation of the decision to subject 251-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures in the member states. these new substances are dangerous, having caused a large number of deaths and poisonings. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it will help to protect european citizens better.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text. it is desirable that 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine be subject to control measures in all member states of the union as these substances may have harmful effects on humans.
in writing. ‒ 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv are psychoactive substances that damage the central nervous system and impair mental function. currently legal and available on the internet, they replace 'traditional' drugs and are spreading in the internal market. from now on, these substances should only be used for scientific research and development. they will also be subject to a permanent restriction and will be subject to the provisions of the union's criminal law, which is consistent with the application of the european precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is in favour of better control of these substances.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementing decisions which aim to introduce control measures at the eu's borders on certain psychoactive substances. these substances, whose marketing is facilitated by the internet, are now spreading in a worrying way in europe. since their use is not well controlled and their effects are unknown, the national authorities of several member states have recorded several cases of deaths and accidents directly or indirectly linked to the consumption of these substances. i therefore agree with the analysis that these substances should be strictly regulated and that their sale and use in the european union should be restricted as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ psychotropic substances have already caused several deaths. further research is needed to define the health and social risks. the report aims to subject 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures across the european union and to develop crossborder cooperation measures between law enforcement and judicial services. the report also provides for better protection of the public against the risks caused by the consumption of these substances. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague teresa jiménez-becerril barrio on the decision to continue the controls recommended by the commission and the council on 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine in the member states because of the toxicity of these substances which has sometimes led to deaths. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine have no recognised medical use and are likely to pose a risk to human health. our lack of scientific knowledge about these products therefore requires additional control measures and research.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures. four deaths related to 25i-nbome have been reported in three member states. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks of these psychotropic substances, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for subjecting them to control measures throughout the european union. this would avoid obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to the protection of the public from the risks associated with the use of these substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it protects the european people, through crossborder police cooperation, against these new psychotropic substances.
in writing. - i voted for this request for control measures. as with the previous substances, 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine have already caused dozens of deaths. that is why we want to impose control measures throughout the european union. this will help to protect the public from the risks associated with these substances.
in writing. ‒ new synthetic psychoactive substances are appearing. methoxetamine, also known as mxe or 3-meo-2-oxo-pce, is a ketamine derivative that also contains structural features of ethycyclidine and 3-meo-pcp. this substance has been controlled in france since 2013. the report before us supports the council's proposal to subject this substance to control measures throughout the union. i vote for it.
in writing. - psychotropic substances have already caused deaths. further research is needed to define the health and social risks. the report aims to subject 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures across the european union and to develop crossborder cooperation measures between law enforcement and judicial services. it also aims to protect the public from the risks caused by the consumption of these substances. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ four reports are proposed at this session to bring new psychotropic substances under control across the eu. the products concerned are 4-methylamphetamine, 5-(2-aminopropyl) indole, 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine, and 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. each of these substances has already caused dozens of deaths. further research is needed to identify the exact health risks, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for monitoring measures throughout the european union. the aim of these decisions is to avoid obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to provide a conservative approach to protecting the public from the risks associated with the use of these substances. these initiatives should therefore be supported.
in writing. the purpose of this text is to subject 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures. as with the previous two reports, i voted in favour.
in writing. i have approved this report in support of the council text calling on the member states to submit controls on dimethoxy and phenethylamine to the authority of the european union. member states are also invited to exchange their knowledge of the risks and analyses of these substances. the control of these drugs for consumption must be generalized and harmonized to avoid any risk of proliferation.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to subject 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine to control measures. as in the case of the two previous reports, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ following the publication of a report expressing concern about the possible risks posed by the psychoactive substances 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine, the european parliament supported the council's position to strengthen control measures on the abovementioned substances, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at subjecting new psychotropic substances to control measures throughout the eu. this substance has already caused dozens of deaths. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for monitoring measures throughout the european union. this would avoid obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to protecting the public from the risks associated with the use of these substances. i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ psychotropic substances are extremely dangerous to human life. they are the cause of many failures and can eventually lead to the death of addicted consumers. further research is needed to better assess the harmful effects of these substances. however, we have enough to put them under control. the report aims to establish rules to strictly control the use of 4,4-dmar and mt-45 throughout the european union and to develop measures for cross-border cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services. as this is a problem which requires the cooperation of all the member states, i think this is a useful text which will facilitate the repression of the trafficking concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because its objective is to promote the exchange of information, risk assessment and control of new psychoactive substances that threaten the health of europeans.
in writing. ‒ yes, this new psychotropic substance must be subject to control measures throughout the european union. this will require improved crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and public protection agencies. that's why i voted for it.
in writing. the report aims to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures because of their proven harmfulness. as with the three previous reports, the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for subjecting them to control measures across the european union in order to avoid the emergence of obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to protect the public from the risks related to the use of these substances. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45, psychotropic substances, to control measures throughout the european union. these substances have already caused about ten deaths, suggesting that they are dangerous enough to require better controls on their use. it is clear that further studies are needed to better understand the health risks to individuals after ingestion of these substances. it is essential that these controls be introduced at european level so as not to hinder cross-border cooperation between the various national services. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to introduce control measures for new psychotropic substances, the use of which has already caused dozens of deaths in control measures across the eu. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks, but it is clear that the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for subjecting these substances to control measures throughout the european union. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the implementation of the decision to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures in the member states. these new substances are dangerous, having caused a large number of deaths and poisonings. i think that this report contributes to a better protection of european citizens, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 are psychoactive substances that damage the central nervous system and impair mental function. currently legal and available on the internet, they replace 'traditional' drugs and are spreading in the domestic market. from now on, these substances should only be used for scientific research and development. they will also be subject to a permanent restriction and will be subject to the provisions of the union's criminal law, which is consistent with the application of the european precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is in favour of better control of these substances.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementing decisions which aim to introduce control measures at the eu's borders on certain psychoactive substances. these substances, whose marketing is facilitated by the internet, are now spreading in a worrying way in europe. since their use is not well controlled and their effects are unknown, the national authorities of several member states have recorded several cases of deaths and accidents directly or indirectly linked to the consumption of these substances. i therefore agree with the analysis that these substances should be strictly regulated and that their sale and use in the european union should be restricted as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ psychotropic substances have already caused several deaths. further research is needed to define the health and social risks. the report aims to subject 4,4-dmar and mt-45 to control measures throughout the european union and to develop crossborder cooperation measures between law enforcement and judicial services. the report also provides for better protection of the public against the risks caused by the consumption of these substances. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr michał boni, on the decision to continue the controls recommended by the commission and the council on 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 in the member states because of the toxicity of this substance, which has sometimes led to deaths. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 are products on the drug market and have been the cause of several deaths. further work is therefore needed to establish the health risks posed by such products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council implementing decision subjecting 4-methyl-5- ((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydrooxazol-2-amine (4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- (1,2-diphenylethyl) piperazine (mt-45) to control measures. between june 2013 and june 2014, 31 deaths related to 4,4'-dmar have already been recorded in three member states, in which 4,4'-dmar alone or in combination with one or more other substances was detected in post-mortem samples. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks of these psychotropic substances, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for subjecting them to control measures throughout the european union. this would avoid obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to the protection of the public from the risks associated with the use of these substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it protects the european people, through crossborder police cooperation, against these new psychotropic substances.
in writing. - i voted for this request for control measures. as with the previous substances, 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 have already caused dozens of deaths. that is why we want to impose control measures throughout the european union. this will help to protect the public from the risks associated with these substances.
in writing. ‒ new synthetic psychoactive substances are appearing. mt-45 is a synthetic opioid discovered in the 1970s and recently reappeared on the market as a new synthetic drug. the report before us supports the council's proposal to subject this substance to control measures throughout the union. because of the health risks it poses, as demonstrated by its discovery in several death cases, i vote in favour.
in writing. - psychotropic substances have already caused deaths. further research is needed to define the health and social risks. the report aims to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures throughout the european union and to develop cross-border cooperation measures between law enforcement and judicial services. it also aims to protect the public from the risks caused by the consumption of these substances. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ four reports are proposed at this session to bring new psychotropic substances under control across the european union. the products concerned are 4-methylamphetamine, 5-(2-aminopropyl) indole, 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine, and 4,4'-dmar and mt-45. each of these substances has already caused dozens of deaths. further research is needed to determine the exact health risks, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for monitoring measures throughout the european union. the purpose of these decisions is to avoid the emergence of obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to allow the protection of the public from the risks related to the use of these substances in a conservative manner. these initiatives should therefore be supported.
in writing. the report aims to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures because of their proven harmfulness. i voted for this text, as i did for the three previous reports.
in writing. i supported this report which endorses the council text to transfer to the european union the control competence for the substance mephedrone (full name 4-methylmethcathinone abbreviated 4-mmc). this new synthetic product has psychoactive effects which are harmful to health, and it is important that control be strengthened by generalizing and harmonizing its study at european level.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to subject 4,4'-dmar and mt-45 to control measures because of their proven harmfulness. i voted for this text, as i did for the three previous reports.
in writing. ‒ the union plays a crucial role in harmonising the substances authorised within its territory. the successive legislation authorizing or prohibiting the circulation of certain chemicals considered dangerous is intended to protect the health of european citizens. in the event of a health risk, the union may strengthen control measures or prohibit the circulation and sale of a specific substance. in this context, in view of the potential risks of 4,4'-dmar and mt-45, the european parliament supported the council's position to subject these two substances to control measures and i welcome this.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to subject new psychotropic substances to control measures throughout the european union. these substances have already caused dozens of deaths. further research is needed to identify the health and social risks, but the available evidence provides sufficient grounds for monitoring measures throughout the european union. this would avoid obstacles to crossborder cooperation between law enforcement and judicial services and to the protection of the public from the risks associated with the use of these substances. i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to mobilise eur 16.3 million from the european solidarity fund following the severe weather events in bulgaria and greece. i am in favour of helping the people affected by the disaster, and i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this necessary debate in view of the disasters that have affected this region of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i thought that the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund was fully justified in order to help the bulgarians and greeks after the severe weather conditions they have suffered in recent months. what is this 16.3 million euro compared to the gigantic waste to which we have become accustomed in the european union? i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in late january and early february 2015, bulgaria experienced heavy rains, snowfall, floods and landslides over most of its territory, which caused considerable damage to public infrastructure, businesses, private homes and property, and severely affected the agricultural sector. in early february 2015, greece was affected by widespread flooding in a large area around the evros and ardas rivers in eastern macedonia and thrace, causing the destruction of basic infrastructure, public buildings, private homes, businesses and damage to the agricultural sector. on the basis of the requests for assistance submitted by bulgaria and greece, the assistance from the fund, which is based on an estimate of the total amounts of damage caused, is as follows: direct damage in bulgaria is estimated at eur 243,305 million and direct damage in greece at eur 395,878 million. the fund proposes to grant eur 6 377 815 to bulgaria and eur 9 896 950 to greece, for a total of eur 16 274 765. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ in early february, greece and bulgaria were hit by severe flooding which caused extensive damage to property. the bulgarian authorities estimated the cost of these events at eur 243 million, or more than 0,6% of gni, which is the trigger level for the eusf. according to athens, the damage caused by these floods amounts to eur 396 million, or 4,78% of the weighted average gdp of the five affected regions, thus exceeding the trigger threshold of 1,5% of regional gdp. for these two natural disasters the commission has already advanced 10% of the financial contribution. after deduction of these advances, the balance to be paid is eur 14.6 million. the commission proposes to draw on the eur 50 million provided for in the 2015 budget, in particular for advance payments and commitment appropriations. in the case of greece and bulgaria, the triggering of the eusf respects the thresholds previously set. i have no objection to a part of the 2015 budget being used to pay the balance of the contributions. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for the second time this year following the disasters in bulgaria (exceptional winter weather) and greece (floods in evros and the central and western regions). with a maximum annual budget of eur 500 million, the solidarity fund enables the eu to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to such emergencies. the current envelope provides for the mobilisation of eur 6.4 million for bulgaria and eur 9.9 million for greece. in the spirit of solidarity with the people affected by disasters, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i supported this text on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to help greece and bulgaria. both countries suffered from natural disasters in 2015. it is important to help their people financially so that they can get their economies back on their feet as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ following the floods in bulgaria and greece last winter, the commission received requests from these states for financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund. these countries will receive eur 16 274 765 in aid, enabling them to rebuild their infrastructure more quickly and not burden their already fragile economies. it should be noted that this fund contributes to the rationalisation of union expenditure by reallocating funds originally earmarked for rural development programmes but not used.
in writing. ‒ the european commission proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund following the disasters in bulgaria (severe winter conditions resulting in a 'major natural disaster' within the meaning of the eusf) and two disasters in greece (floods in the evros region and central greece) in early 2015. i therefore voted for the novakov report on the mobilisation of this fund following the various disasters. i believe it is essential and vital to provide financial aid to our member states affected by such disasters. the vote on this resolution will mean that the eu will provide €6.3 million for bulgaria and €9.8 million for greece. this mobilisation does not require an amendment to the 2015 budget as the commission proposes to draw on an envelope specifically earmarked for advances that was mobilised at the time of the adoption of the 2015 budget.
in writing. ‒ two natural disasters struck bulgaria and greece in early 2015. the national and regional dimensions of these problems are nevertheless a serious blow to the economic development of these two countries, which are already in difficulty. the particularly harsh winter in bulgaria caused extensive damage to public infrastructure, private buildings and farms. the two floods in thrace and the eastern region of greek macedonia also had a particularly severe impact on economic activity in these regions, amounting to 0.62% of annual national gdp for bulgaria and 4.78% of annual gdp for the regions concerned in greece. i support european cooperation and solidarity, which is not synonymous with the protection of states but with humanitarian solidarity, and i voted in favour of this report, which received requests for assistance from greece and bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to express eu solidarity with disaster-stricken regions. i am pleased that the european union has mobilised the solidarity fund for bulgaria and greece, which were hit by floods in the evros region and the centre of the country in early 2015. we do not talk enough about this fund, which is the most concrete expression of european solidarity. this is unfortunate, because it would help people to become aware of their belonging to the same space of solidarity across national borders. i would like to take this opportunity to ask the french government to request that this fund be used to help the citizens and local authorities who were hit by severe weather conditions at the beginning of october on the côte d'azur.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond quickly, efficiently and flexibly to emergency situations and to express solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. bulgaria submitted an application for assistance from the fund following severe winter conditions. greece submitted two requests for assistance from the fund following floods. the fund should therefore be mobilised in order to provide a contribution to these two affected countries. after examination, i consider that these applications fulfil the eligibility criteria laid down in the fund regulation. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague andrey novakov on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following the disasters in bulgaria and greece in 2015. the fund will provide eur 6.3 million for bulgaria to help repair damage caused by exceptional winter conditions and eur 9.8 million for greece, which has been hit by floods in the evros region and central greece. i welcome the positive vote of the european parliament because the european union solidarity fund is essential to respond to natural disasters and expresses the union's solidarity with the regions affected. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to support the development of the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because bulgaria and greece suffered from exceptional weather conditions during the winter of 2014/2015, causing very heavy damage. it was therefore necessary to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to help them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund following the disasters in bulgaria and greece in 2015. in january and february 2015, bulgaria experienced heavy rains, snowfall, flooding and landslides in most parts of the country. these have caused considerable damage to public infrastructure such as dams, communication networks and roads, to businesses as well as to private homes and property, and have caused damage to the agricultural and forestry sectors. in early february, greece was hit by widespread flooding in eastern macedonia and thrace, causing damage comparable to that in bulgaria. in both cases, the disaster was a natural disaster, which justified the mobilisation of the solidarity fund of eur 16.3 million.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it helps the victims of the weather in bulgaria and greece with eur 16.3 million.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to the increasing number of major natural disasters in europe and to express eu solidarity with the affected regions. the report here provides for the authorisation of expenditure of eur 16,3 million following the damage caused by floods in greece and bulgaria in early 2015. after deduction of the amount already paid as the 10% advance, the balance to be paid amounts to eur 14,6 million. the 2015 solidarity fund is budgeted at eur 50 million, so no amendments to the 2015 budget are necessary. i therefore vote in favour. i regret, however, the lack of will to prevent the causes of these "catastrophes", which are much less natural than they appear. their increase, as we saw in nice recently, demonstrates the urgency of ecological planning, while the wild european liberalization leaves the states helpless in the face of climate change.
in writing. the vote concerns the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund for a total of eur 16.3 million to provide financial assistance following the natural disasters in bulgaria and greece. both countries have experienced severe weather leading to considerable damage to public and private infrastructure. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the novakov report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the 2015 disasters in bulgaria and greece. the european commission proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund following a disaster in bulgaria (severe winter conditions resulting in a 'major natural disaster') and two disasters in greece (floods in the evros region and central greece) in early 2015. the european union must remain an example of solidarity, particularly between its member states. natural disasters are events which we cannot always anticipate and every region in europe may one day be hit hard.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report calling for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to help bulgaria and greece. the eusf was set up to help member states and regions cope with major or regional natural disasters. in early 2015, bulgaria and greece suffered devastating floods with damage estimated at eur 243 million and eur 396 million respectively. the destruction of public infrastructure, communication networks and dams are all factors that justify the need to use the eusf. the report therefore proposes to approve the payment of eur 6.4 million to bulgaria and eur 9.9 million to greece to help them overcome these devastations (a total of eur 16.3 million).
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for a total of eur 16.3 million. the aim is to provide financial assistance following natural disasters in bulgaria and greece. both countries have experienced severe weather leading to considerable damage to public and private infrastructure. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ in early 2015, bulgaria was hit by a very harsh winter and greece suffered severe flooding in the evros region and central greece. these exceptional climatic conditions have severely affected these countries and caused several damages. in this context, the countries wanted to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to help local and regional authorities to repair the damage caused. the commission proposed to allocate eur 6.3 million to bulgaria and eur 9.8 million to greece. the european parliament approved this call for proposals. i voted in favour of this report and i think it is important to use the solidarity fund in such circumstances. i hope that we can also benefit from this fund for the deadly disasters which have occurred in the south of france in recent weeks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products. the report aims to extend the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products. this proposal provides for protection of 'made in france' and therefore of french producers. this process also benefits the consumer by providing guarantees of product quality. this is a step forward for french producers, although we regret the rather vague definition of non-agricultural pgi and the registration process.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to extend the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products, including certain french products. the producer can thus use a protected geographical indication to promote know-how and offer quality products to consumers. in france, companies expect a significant increase in demand for products in certain sectors thanks to this indicator. as this is a matter of protecting the 'made in france', i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation which supports local economic development, stimulates tourism, builds consumer confidence and helps to preserve cultural heritage and traditional know-how.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the initiative by virginie rozière, which is a response to the lack of protection for products manufactured in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's industrial and craft know-how is protected. this approach establishes a clear link between the product and the geographical area through a registration system recognised at european level. this will enhance our heritage and contribute to growth in europe.
in writing. ‒ we are often accused of being 'euro-sceptics' when we are not accused of being 'anti-european' outright, but we do not hesitate to support the too few projects that seem to us to be going in the right direction. this is the case for this report on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products. i therefore voted in favour, although this is only a draft and many points remain unclear or clearly unsatisfactory at this stage.
in writing. ‒ this report on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products should make it possible to better protect non-agricultural products, especially at a time when the number of counterfeits is increasing. this will benefit french products such as the laguiole knife, the calais lace, the aurillac umbrella and the aubusson tapestry. pgi is a name or symbol that refers to the geographical origin of a product and to traditional know-how. this ensures that consumers have a quality offer and also allows producers to promote their products. this extension should thus make it possible to protect even better the "made in france", especially since it is expected that international demand may increase (up to 25%!) in certain sectors, such as textiles, which benefit from the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report extending the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products such as laguiole knives, calais lace, etc. it enables the producer to promote his products and offers the consumer guarantees of quality.
in writing. ‒ a protected geographical indication or pgi is an identification mark of the european community which, as its name suggests, refers to the geographical origin of a product when it derives part of its specificity from that origin. created in 1992, the pgi allows the producer to promote his products and offers the consumer guarantees of quality. the report recommends extending this protection to non-agricultural products. some companies whose success is based on a particular know-how believe that the extension of this protection will enable them to benefit from a 25% increase in international demand. as someone who is committed to promoting the 'made in france' and french entrepreneurs, i can only welcome this legislative breakthrough. consumers will have more accurate information and will buy a product with full knowledge of the facts. this extension will make it possible to combat counterfeiting more effectively. our contractors will be all the more rewarded. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ european geographical indications for agricultural products are very important not only for transparency but also for the proper functioning of the single market. these indications are a guarantee of quality. it seems therefore quite natural to want to extend them to non-agricultural products. the industrial and craft sectors are full of special features which should be protected and brought to the attention of consumers. we must be sure that the cultural specificities and european know-how are preserved. it is also with this type of measure that we will succeed in perfecting the functioning of the single market. the extension of geographical indications to non-agricultural products will benefit both producers and consumers. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by virginie rozière on the extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products. i think this is a very good report, which takes account of both the need to preserve our unique and varied european heritage and the potential for economic growth in our territories. i think that the approach taken by mrs rozière is constructive, since the geographical indication is not seen as a condition for access to the market but as the enshrinement of a know-how. these ancestral skills are not exempt from counterfeiting, which has grown considerably in the digital sphere in recent years. the response to these risks of usurpation can only be european: a single system of protection must be put in place, the coexistence of national legal protections is no longer sufficient.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to extend the protection of protected geographical indications to non-agricultural products. a pgi is a name or symbol that refers to the geographical origin of a product and to traditional know-how. it enables the producer to promote his products and offers the consumer guarantees of quality. in france, particularly in certain sectors such as textiles, firms have estimated a possible increase of 25% in international demand as a result of such protection. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to extend the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products. like their agricultural counterparts, these geographical indications identify a product whose quality, reputation or characteristics are mainly attributable to its geographical origin. this system, which is currently used only in agriculture, should be developed for traditional european products based on genuine know-how and techniques. these products are often a key asset for the attractiveness of european territories and contribute to their local economic dynamism. the extension of such a geographical identification system will therefore aim to protect the authenticity and quality of european products, provide consumers with reliable information and better combat counterfeiting. i am convinced that these measures will help to strengthen european competitiveness, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this legislative proposal in order to remedy the fragmentation of the internal market, to make the most of the know-how of our european territories, to guarantee the authenticity and quality of our european products and to strengthen the european union's position on geographical indications in its negotiations with its trading partners.
in writing. ‒ the recognition and protection of geographical indications is essential for the preservation of artisanal products and know-how in europe. the protection system in place for agricultural geographical indications in europe should be extended to non-agricultural products, such as the laguiole knife or murano glass. this will help to strengthen the competitiveness of many european enterprises. this means that 4 million jobs are affected in europe, in local smes or craft structures. this will also help to inform consumers better about the quality and origin of products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rozière report on the possible extension of the european union's protected geographical indications to non-agricultural products. the implementation of the directive will make it possible to remedy the fragmentation of the internal market while promoting the know-how of our european territories. this will give consumers assurance of the authenticity, quality and reliability of the protected products. finally, by voting in favour of this report, i welcome the fact that it strengthens the european union's position on gis (geographical indications) in the context of its trade negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the indication of the geographical origin of products, whether agricultural or not, is an essential element. it must be brought to the consumer's attention for two reasons. firstly, it brings a real added value from our world-renowned homeland. finally, it enables the consumer to distinguish between imitations of the original product. by promoting the know-how on the labelling of non-agricultural products, this proposal makes it possible not to see our handicrafts (knives from laguiole, lace from calais, etc.) unfairly competing with products of lower quality and lower costs. this will enable the consumer to make an informed choice, which could make the french buying process easier. as a representative of the french people and patriots, i can only support this initiative which allows our artisans to stand out from an increasingly unfair competition. that is why i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is in favour of better protection of designations of origin.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mrs rozière. it is not perfect, but its objective is commendable: to defend and promote traditional and artisanal products and know-how, to avoid counterfeiting, misuse of reputation, misuse or even confiscation of names by trademark registration, as laguiole, for example, and its famous cutlery have been victims. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in international trade, the protection proposed by the rozière report, similar to that enjoyed by food products, is necessary but far from sufficient. the transatlantic disputes on this subject are not to be counted, and the free trade agreements, namely the ceta with canada and the future itpc with the united states, are extremely worrying in this respect. secondly, it is very regrettable that the marking of origin is not compulsory for all products, especially imported ones. the commission has withdrawn its draft legislation under pressure from certain states, such as germany, which wants to continue to claim to produce things it only assembles, such as cars, and to give them the benefit of its reputation.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 6 october, meps adopted the report on the possible extension of protected geographical indications (pgi) to non-agricultural products. many european and french products could be affected by this european scheme, for example 'citron de menton' or 'marseille soap'. the extension of geographical indications to non-agricultural products would represent a real economic and cultural opportunity in europe, as well as a recognition of the know-how of our regions. direct and indirect employment in the non-agricultural geographical indications sector represents more than 4 million jobs in europe and in 2010 the estimated value of sales for geographical indications in the european union was eur 54,3 billion, of which eur 11,5 billion was export sales. it is therefore more than necessary to establish protection of geographical indications at european level, which would not only protect our companies from counterfeiting and unfair competition, but also guarantee consumers the preservation of traditional know-how, the manufacture of quality products and a better protection of their cultural heritage.
in writing. ‒ at present, there is no eu-wide system for the protection of geographical indications for industrial and craft products. products such as laguiole knives, aubusson tapestry and limoges porcelain, to name just a few examples in france, are currently protected in only half of the eu countries. it is therefore urgent that the eu has a real system for protecting know-how. this system will benefit consumers and manufacturers as well as regions. that is why i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs virginie rozière. the report recommends, in particular, the adoption of a unified system for the protection of non-agricultural geographical indications, including a registration system recognised at european level. the challenge is simple: not only to preserve and enhance europe's heritage, but also to make a significant contribution to jobs and growth in europe by preventing the relocation of these productions. it is now up to the european commission to take up this matter and to propose european legislation as soon as possible which will make it possible finally! to ensure the protection of products which have the characteristics of a place or a region.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the establishment of a european legal framework for the protection of non-agricultural products in order to better recognise and value the quality and origin of these products. it is true that the lack of harmonised eu regulation is a major weakness for local products, which are competing with imitation and counterfeit products of poor quality. i have very concrete examples in my region of excellent products being threatened by competition from counterfeit products. i'm thinking particularly of the laguiole knives. in my view, the protection of our local traditions and know-how is a european imperative, because this culture of excellence contributes to the spread of french and european culture throughout the world. i am therefore convinced that labelling non-agricultural products as we already do for agricultural products will help to preserve many activities and to revive the local economy in our regions.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to extend protection to non-agricultural products, including certain french products. through a protected geographical indication, the producer can promote know-how and offer quality products to consumers. in france, it is estimated that this geographical indication will lead to an increase in the demand for products in certain sectors. as it is a question of protecting the 'made in france', i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, virginie rozière, on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products. while the name 'camembert' is now legally protected, non-food products such as laguiole knives, for example, are not, allowing any company to exploit laguiole's reputation for quality and reliability to produce knives of inferior quality and pass them off as laguiole knives. the text calls on the commission to adopt a legislative proposal to protect non-agricultural products, so that european consumers can be assured of the authenticity and quality of the protected products they buy. the extension of this protection will also strengthen the union's negotiating position in its trade negotiations with third countries. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because traditional european products are important elements in preserving economic and social life in many parts of europe. indicating the geographical origin of these products will help to support the local economy, to protect know-how in a uniform manner throughout the union and to provide consumers with reliable information on the place and method of production.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rozière report on the possible extension of the european union's protected geographical indications to non-agricultural products. we call on the european commission to propose a legislative instrument to protect the place of origin of our handicrafts. as a member of the committee on legal affairs, i contributed to the drafting of this report with my amendments, because i believe that the protection of european know-how against unfair competition and counterfeiting is essential to guarantee consumers the quality and safety of products, while promoting the image of our european products internationally. in the case of the île-de-france, this could be the case, for example, of the porcelain and glassworks of sèvres, the goldsmith's shop of paris or the tile of provins.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products. this extension has the merit of extending the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products, such as calais lace. a pgi, which refers to the geographical origin of a product and traditional know-how, enables the producer to promote his products and offers the consumer guarantees of quality. in france, in some sectors, the possible increase in international demand resulting from the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products was estimated at 25%. the aim is therefore to protect and promote 'made in france'. the report is therefore generally positive, although some of its passages are unsatisfactory: the definition of pgi is relatively vague, and the compulsory registration process is rather mysterious at this stage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it has the merit of extending the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products, such as laguiole knives and calais lace, for example. a pgi is a name or symbol that refers to the geographical origin of a product and to traditional know-how. it enables the producer to promote his products and offers the consumer guarantees of quality. so the point here is to protect the "made in france". the report is therefore generally positive, although some of its passages are unsatisfactory (the vague definition of non-agricultural pgi and the rather mysterious compulsory registration process at this stage).
in writing. ‒ this text makes it possible to defend 'made in france' by protecting recognised and well-known know-how, such as limoges porcelain or laguiole cutlery. more generally, the extension of pgi (protected geographical indications) is part of an approach to the singularization of local crafts and highlights the particularities of the various states of the european union, including france. i therefore logically voted for this report.
in writing. - i voted for this report. although some passages remain unclear, the overall picture is very satisfactory: it will make it possible to assign the protected geographical indication (pgi) to non-agricultural products, such as laguiole knives or calais lace. this extension will help to protect the 'made in france', a symbol for consumers of traditional know-how and a guarantee of quality.
in writing. ‒ i voted enthusiastically for the report by my colleague virginie rozière, which calls on the european parliament to support greater protection of geographical indications in the union. at present, while agricultural gi's (champagne wine, agen prunes, etc.) are largely protected, the same is not true of non-agricultural products such as laguiole knives or marseille soaps. the extension of the gi to more than 800 handicraft products - which parliament, through the rozière report, calls for - would only bring benefits, both for consumers and for workers. this system would give europeans access to reliable information on products that are recognised as being of quality. the extension of the gi to manufactured products would also have the effect of combating counterfeiting and the associated relocations. at a time when some european countries, such as france, are trying to promote 'territorial diplomacy' in their trade relations, parliament's initiative is more than welcome. the commission is now being urged to propose a legislative initiative on non-agricultural pgi. that is why i have co-signed a letter to commissioner katainen on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the use of geographical indications (gi) now protects agricultural products of a particular geographical origin that have specific qualities or are produced using traditional methods. the report before us envisages extending this principle to non-agricultural products based on traditional techniques and crafts of a very high standard, and which are an integral part of regional and local culture. fifteen member states (including france since june 2015) have adopted this system. i am glad that the commission has taken this step, and i am glad that it has done so. the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products is a tool for preserving cultural heritage and traditional know-how, and it guarantees fair remuneration for producers. it remains to be seen whether these pgi will be respected in the context of the large transatlantic market. in the meantime, i vote yes.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to extend protection to non-agricultural products, including certain french products. through a protected geographical indication, the producer can promote know-how and offer quality products to consumers. in france, it is estimated that this geographical indication will lead to an increase in the demand for products in certain sectors. as it is a question of protecting the 'made in france', i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to extend the protection of protected geographical indications (pgi) to non-agricultural products. in france, for example, this would allow protection to be given to goods which refer to a geographical origin and traditional know-how. the most cited example is the laguiole knives. pgi allows the producer to promote his products and offers the consumer guarantees of quality. in practical terms, pgi is a way of promoting 'made in france' commercially and making it safe against counterfeiting. the text presented here is an improvement which deserves support.
in writing. the report aims to apply the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products such as laguiole knives and calais lace, among others. a protected geographical indication allows the protection of a name or symbol which refers to the geographical origin of a product and to traditional know-how, while providing consumers with guarantees as to the quality of those products. these pgi are of crucial importance as they increase the international demand of the beneficiary firms (by some studies, by almost 25%!). i believe that this is a way of protecting the "made in france" and i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. the own-initiative parliamentary resolution presented by this report proposes the creation of a geographical indication system for non-agricultural products. this system is already used for agricultural products (pdo and pgi) and its benefits have been widely recognised. the resolution proposes the creation of a major european label, in the field of handicrafts, among other things, to protect and promote the know-how and authenticity of products. i am voting in favour of this resolution, which offers a chance to promote the position of european smes and to protect local products.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to apply the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products such as laguiole knives and calais lace, among others. a protected geographical indication allows the protection of a name or symbol which refers to the geographical origin of a product and to traditional know-how, while offering guarantees to consumers about the quality of these products. these pgi are of crucial importance as they increase the international demand of the beneficiary companies (by some studies, by almost 25%!). i believe that this is a way of protecting the "made in france" and i have decided to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday, we voted on a text calling for the protection and promotion of our local know-how and craftsmanship by applying a geographical indication to them, much like pdos and pgi. i welcome this, especially since i am fighting precisely because our region, our euro-region, is rich in ancestral know-how. i was in laguiole last year. i met with the leaders and workers of the ironworks. i had already raised the idea of a gi for the craft sector before parliament even took up the matter! these gi's are still reserved for agricultural products and i hope that the commission will soon propose a gi for our handicrafts. first of all to prevent fraud, but above all to make our know-how known and recognized worldwide. i am particularly sensitive to this issue because 80% of the companies concerned are smes. they perpetuate techniques that make their city and region famous.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution to extend the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products. i am in favour of a legislative proposal to establish a single european system of protection, including a mandatory product registration process and a single european register of non-agricultural products which are protected by a geographical indication. i think it is important, however, that this new system should be able to coexist with the rights already attached to products. such legislative provisions on geographical indications would help to preserve and enhance traditional and high-quality know-how, thus enhancing europe's historical, cultural, economic and social heritage. this would also facilitate the choice of consumers who would be assured of the authenticity and quality of the product through reliable information on the place and method of production. these provisions would also have the advantage of encouraging innovation by supporting smes, combating imitation and counterfeiting and encouraging fair competition. finally, this protection system would stimulate european exports and allow us to gain market share, while at the same time protecting the products concerned in the context of the common commercial policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the possible extension of geographical indications to non-agricultural products. many european and french products could be affected by this european system, notably the laguiole knife, the calais lace and the cherbourg umbrella. the extension of geographical indications to non-agricultural products would represent a real economic and cultural opportunity in europe, as well as a recognition of know-how. direct and indirect employment in the non-agricultural geographical indications sector represents more than 4 million jobs in europe. it is urgent to establish protection of geographical indications at european level, which would not only protect our companies from counterfeiting and unfair competition, but also guarantee consumers quality know-how and products. this european protection must be put in place by ensuring that the system is simple and inexpensive so that our companies, and in particular our smes, can have access to it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the virginie rozière report is to push the european commission to legislate on a system for the recognition of non-agricultural geographical indications (a kind of landmark). while agricultural geographical indications are recognised in eu legislation, there is no framework for non-agricultural gi's. local artisans cannot get their craftsmanship recognized in most countries. the laguioles knives, the carrara marble and the scottish tartans are not just trademarks, they are part of europe's intangible heritage. i have therefore strongly supported this report, because an extension of the system of geographical indications will allow for the effective preservation of heritage and employment, will provide a bulwark against relocations and will simplify the lives of our artisans and the choice of european consumers. we expect the commission, which alone has the power of legislative initiative, to propose legislation quickly to take up this proposal which has a broad consensus in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ this report has the merit of extending the protection of geographical indications to non-agricultural products, such as laguiole knives and calais lace, among others. a pgi is a name or symbol that refers to the geographical origin of a product and to traditional know-how. it enables the producer to promote his products and offers the consumer guarantees of quality. in france, in some sectors, companies have estimated that protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products would lead to a possible 25% increase in international demand. so it is a question of protecting the "made in france". the report is therefore generally positive. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the geographical indication of origin of agricultural products has proved its worth in terms of protection, thanks in particular to the pdo and aoc designations. support for the establishment of an equivalent system for handicraft products is therefore positive. faced with international competition, local producers need this protection, which values the quality and authenticity of handicrafts produced at regional or local level. such a measure could have significant benefits for smes and the recognition of their know-how. this would increase the access of european citizens to reliable information on the place and methods of production by providing guarantees on the origin of products. this resolution has the merit of being a first step towards better protecting local production in the european union. it remains to be seen what conclusions the other european institutions will draw from this so that beyond good intentions, we will reach real legal protection. i voted in favour of this because it is the right thing to do.
in writing. ‒ the subject of this report concerns the situation in greece. this is a package of measures to provide additional assistance to greece of eur 2 billion for the years 2015 and 2016. this choice of the commission is questionable. we do not know how the greek government will use these funds. it is therefore very likely that part of this money will be allocated to immigrant reception facilities. it can be expected that other member states will apply for the same preferential treatment. moreover, the greek government has been unable to resolve the crisis for some time now, despite the aid from the union. the national front believes that the only viable solution for greece is a concerted exit from the euro zone. this is absolutely necessary if the greek government is to have sufficient room for manoeuvre to bring the country's economy back on track. so far, greece has been mired in a protracted crisis that has made it increasingly dependent on the european authorities, both financially and politically. we have tabled several amendments to take account of these elements. these were not adopted. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which gives greece specific aid measures. it is obvious that these must be released only with the assurance of the effectiveness of the prescribed reforms to which the greek government is committed.
in writing. ‒ we have so far opposed the specific measures proposed for greece, and especially the third bailout of €86 billion. this time it is the mobilisation of structural funds which, in principle, should be earmarked for projects that support growth and job creation. it remains to be seen whether the greeks will be the only beneficiaries of these payments and the commission does not give sufficient guarantees on this issue. this concern was expressed by several members during the debate in the regi committee, where my colleague steeve briois sits. the real effectiveness of these proposals is uncertain. the cofinancing rates have already been raised several times in favour of greece and, despite this, the greek government remains unable to provide a financial contribution. in these circumstances, can we still speak of 'co-financing'? therefore, it is more a question of grants to greece at the expense of other member states contributing to the eu budget. i could have voted for this text if some of the amendments tabled by our group had been accepted: that was not the case.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to adopt specific measures for greece through the cohesion policy. it must help greece to use the structural funds despite its inability to co-finance public investment projects. the proposal calls for an additional eur 2 billion to be mobilised (eur 1 billion in 2015 and eur 1 billion in 2016). as a result of the financial crisis and the austerity policy imposed by the troika, greece is suffering from severe liquidity problems, but the counterpart to this aid is always the same: even more austerity, budget cuts and privatizations... solutions that do not work. greece must first of all regain its national currency and get out of this austerity trap and, as it stands, i have therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal calls for an additional €2 billion of cohesion policy funds to be mobilised for greece, which is no longer able to co-finance public investment projects. athens is facing serious liquidity problems as a result of the austerity measures imposed by the troika. the text specifically provides for an increase in the level of initial pre-financing paid to the greek operational programmes for 2014-2020 and an increase in the co-financing rate to 100% for the 2007-2013 programmes. the commission's decision to use the simplified procedure is strongly condemned. in substance, this aid is supposed to support growth and job creation in greece, although it is insufficient. the amendments we tabled were aimed at regulating the use of these funds for greece so that they are not used to finance infrastructure for the reception of illegal migrants. we also wanted this aid to be exceptional and temporary so that other member states would not apply for it. these amendments were rejected, which is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ greece is having great difficulty in overcoming the crisis. the country no longer has the liquidity to implement investment projects that are essential for the implementation of the structural reforms necessary for its economic recovery. the situation requires quick action. the future of the euro area and the european union is at stake. for this reason, the european parliament granted additional pre-financing under the accelerated procedure for the operational programmes relating to cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 and for the european maritime and fisheries fund. these are funds which would have been given to greece anyway. the union is not giving greece more money, but is giving it an advance on what it owes. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am opposed to the specific measures proposed for greece. in the report in question, it is the mobilisation of structural funds which should in principle be earmarked for projects which support growth and job creation. and there is one worrying detail: we cannot be sure that the payments will benefit only the greeks, because the commission does not give sufficient guarantees. moreover, it is no longer co-financing because today the greek government is no longer able to contribute financially to eu projects. finally, the proposals in this report risk making the greek economy even more dependent on eu funds.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to provide additional pre-financing to greece under the 2014-2020 cohesion policy and the european maritime and fisheries fund. greece, which has been hit hard by the crisis, is facing a shortage of liquidity and public funds to finance the investments needed for economic recovery. the report therefore proposes to increase the share and rates of co-financing of european funds for investment projects that will create growth and jobs, particularly in key sectors such as fisheries and port activities. i have supported the report, considering that aid for investment in the real economy will be one of the key levers for greece to get out of the crisis.
in writing. greece, currently in a precarious financial situation, will be able to benefit from payment appropriations paid in advance by the european union. this will enable the country to implement rapidly the programmes supported by the various european structural and investment funds, through investments on the ground. i voted in favour of this budget-neutral commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted for these measures which i hope will allow greece to breathe a little fresh air in the financial turmoil it has been experiencing for several years. the funds thus released should make it possible to overcome the lack of liquidity which prevents the greek state and its local authorities from investing in new projects in order to restart sustainable growth and get out of the hole in which they are trapped. in this context, the country must be able to look to the future and be able to initiate and finance cohesion projects under the 2014-2020 programmes. it is also essential today to send a strong political message to the greek people and their government, who have proved their commitment to europe in the last two elections.
in writing. ‒ the report was intended to encourage the european commission to validate the allocation of additional funds to greece. in an attempt to compensate for the lack of liquidity in the greek economy, the aim was to enable greece to implement the investment programmes of the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund. the additional funding will give greece a better chance of boosting its economy, thanks in particular to the funds allocated to it by the european union. however, it is essential not to sign cheques blindly and unconditionally. i therefore conditioned my vote on this report on the fact that this flower made for greece should not set a precedent and that the funds should be used for the benefit of the greeks and not for the reception of illegal immigrants. the main political groups in the system have preferred to support the financing of mass immigration, so i voted against this report, which is nothing but a continuation of a policy that has no effect or effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it only amplifies the process of indebtedness in greece and diverts the structural funds from their original foundations.
in writing. ‒ greece's catastrophic financial situation, aggravated by the lies of the tsipras government, the lack of liquidity and the insufficiency of public funds, have hampered the implementation of investment projects partly financed by the eu. therefore, at the european summit on 12 july 2015, heads of state and government decided to amend the common rules governing the implementation of the five european structural and investment funds in order to provide emergency liquidity to greece and to help the country to take full advantage of the available union funding. these common provisions pave the way for a new programme of support for greece to return to credibility and viability. although i am not in favour of the policy pursued by the government in power, i believe that the greek people should not be punished twice and that the return to growth also requires a policy of investment in the country. for these reasons i have decided to support this report.
in writing. ‒ the subject of this report concerns the situation in greece. this is a package of measures to provide additional assistance to greece of eur 2 billion for the years 2015 and 2016. this choice of the commission is questionable. firstly, we do not know how the greek government will use the funds. it is therefore very likely that part of this money will be allocated to immigrant reception facilities. on the other hand, it can be expected that other member states will apply for the same preferential treatment. moreover, the greek government has been unable to resolve the crisis for some time now, despite the aid from the union. with my colleagues from the national front, we believe that the only viable solution for greece is a concerted exit from the euro zone. this is absolutely necessary if the greek government is to have sufficient room for manoeuvre to bring the country's economy back on track. so far, greece has been mired in a protracted crisis that has made it increasingly dependent on the european authorities, both financially and politically. we have tabled several amendments to take account of these elements. these were not adopted. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mihaylova report on 'specific measures for greece'. this initiative is part of a package following the decisions of the european summit on greece last july. the european parliament voted in favour of the european commission's proposal to provide emergency cash to greece. this vote by accelerated procedure was essential in view of the urgency of the situation in greece and the risk that many projects under way in that country would be buried. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary of the measure is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market. however, i believe that in future the european parliament will have to be involved more in advance so that its prerogatives are not curtailed. it will also have to ensure that funds are used properly, by ensuring that they feed well into the real economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the consequences of the financial crisis are putting greece in an exceptional budgetary situation. it is therefore necessary that the country retains access to liquidity to invest under the programmes supported by the european union.
in writing. ‒ the structural funds are governed by a set of procedures and budgetary rules which oblige the states to finance part of the projects, the rest being co-financed by the structural funds. this share varies according to the level of development of the regions. in the greek budgetary situation, because of the enormous european budgetary pressures, it is impossible to provide the necessary contribution to the disbursement of european funds, however small. this is a paradox that must be noted: the greeks can hardly use european funds because the european budgetary rules prevent them from taking out the necessary share of the financed projects. with this new proposal, structural financing will now be able to cover 100%, which represents a saving of €2 billion for the greek treasury. the 5% reserve made on european funds can also be released, bringing cash reserves estimated at eur 500 million. finally, the prefinancing rates for the next budgetary period are increased. i supported these new rules, but i regret that they were adopted after the blackmail imposed on the greek people last july. the funds should have been released much earlier instead of being used as a bargaining chip for shameful blackmail.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the specific measures for greece. the real effectiveness of these measures is uncertain. co-financing rates have already been raised several times in favour of greece and, despite this, the greek government remains unable to provide a financial contribution to eu co-financed projects. we can no longer speak of co-financing if the member state's contribution falls to 0%. it is no longer structural funds but grants to greece at the expense of the other member states which contribute to the eu budget. on the contrary, these proposals risk making the greek economy even more dependent on funds from the eu budget and may encourage other member states to apply similar measures in their favour. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it gives money to greece, which will be unable to pay it back given its appalling debt ratio. the eu is thus continuing its flight forward instead of acknowledging the failure of the euro zone and its austerity policy.
in writing. - i voted against it. we have always opposed the specific measures proposed for greece and the misuse of european funds. this is about using funds intended to support growth and job creation to help a country! this text is all the more outrageous because it was rushed through parliament, depriving members, and therefore the peoples of europe, of the right to amend it! the european commission is using these funds as a constant infusion to feed a country that is unable to survive: instead of recognizing that greece is on the brink of collapse because of european policies, money is freely distributed to it in the hope that it will get out of it. we are opposed to this free distribution of european money without any checks or criteria.
in writing. ‒ a few months after greece was forced to accept a new dictate from its creditors, it is now clear that the solution has not solved anything. the third aid package has mainly enabled the country to meet its deadlines and the need for cash is still very strong. to remedy, at least partially, this liquidity crisis, the european commission has submitted to parliament a proposal for the use of the european structural funds (erdf, esf, cohesion fund, emff) to revitalise the real economy in greece. this emergency response is welcome. the european cohesion policy is one of the only genuine community policies of investment, solidarity and sometimes even redistribution. it is more than necessary to mitigate the disastrous effects of austerity on the ground: the rapid increase in poverty, the weakening of health and education systems. in approving this report, i voted for immediate aid to the greeks. but our work would be in vain if it were limited to "picking up broken pots". it must, on the contrary, address the root causes of the greek crisis and thus be accompanied by a real reorientation of the european union's macroeconomic policy.
in writing. ‒ due to european intransigence, greece is now facing a shortage of liquidity and a lack of public funds available to finance the necessary investments. in order to ensure that this does not impede investment under programmes supported by the european regional development fund, the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), the commission has proposed to amend the regulation on common provisions. the proposal thus allows for the advance payment of eur 2 025 600 and the elimination of the need for national co-financing by applying a maximum co-financing rate of 100% to eligible expenditure, which should represent savings of almost eur 2 billion for the greek budget. given the urgency of the situation, i vote yes.
in writing. ‒ the subject of this report concerns the situation in greece. this is a package of measures to provide additional assistance to greece of eur 2 billion for the years 2015 and 2016. this choice of the commission is questionable. firstly, we do not know how the greek government will use the funds. it is therefore very likely that part of this money will be allocated to immigrant reception facilities. on the other hand, it can be expected that other member states will apply for the same preferential treatment. moreover, the greek government has been unable to resolve the crisis for some time now, despite the aid from the union. the national front believes that the only viable solution for greece is a concerted exit from the euro zone. this is absolutely necessary if the greek government is to have sufficient room for manoeuvre to bring the country's economy back on track. so far, greece has been mired in a protracted crisis that has made it increasingly dependent on the european authorities, both financially and politically. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal aims to adopt specific measures for greece through the cohesion policy. as a result of the financial crisis and the austerity policy imposed by the troika, greece is suffering from severe liquidity problems. the proposal calls for an additional €2 billion of cohesion policy funds to be mobilised for greece, with zero co-financing, with europe providing the full amount. this is no longer structural funds but grants to greece at the expense of other member states, which risk making the greek economy even more dependent on the eu and encouraging other member states to ask for similar measures. the european union is not seeking a lasting solution to this crisis and is not questioning the devastating effects of its policy on the greek issue. the only answer is to provide additional funds to a state which is unable to manage its own budget with the constraints imposed on it. the commission should stop treating cohesion policy funds as emergency funds and stop making the greek economy dependent on the structural funds.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to adopt specific measures for greece to help greece use the structural funds to compensate for its inability to co-finance public investment projects. it is proposed to mobilise an additional eur 2 billion over two years. the counterpart to these payments is a mad austerity policy denounced by all the serious economists of the world as well as by the most orthodox institutions, such as the imf or the world bank. the aid to greece has been a bottomless pit, and a total loss. voting in favour of this text would be a blanket endorsement of the troika's disastrous policy. until greece has its own currency, this financial infusion will fail. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the mihaylova report which aims to facilitate access to european funds for greece. this member state has been affected by the consequences of the financial crisis in a very particular way. the country is facing a liquidity shortage and a lack of public funds available to finance the investments needed to foster a sustainable recovery. in this context, the commission proposal provides for additional pre-financing for operational programmes under cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. it also allows the co-financing rate for the 2007-2013 operational programmes to be increased to 100% for the convergence and regional competitiveness and employment objectives in greece. although i have given my full support to this solidarity initiative, it must nevertheless be made clear that these are exceptional measures adopted in a particular context. the european funds should not be regarded by the member states as a mere piggy bank at their disposal, but rather as a means of implementing policies decided at european level. if solidarity is to be the rule, responsibility is also a must.
in writing. the purpose of this proposal is to amend the general regulation on european funds in order to provide for specific measures for greece. these specific measures are intended to facilitate the implementation of the european cohesion funds for greece in the current liquidity crisis. i voted in favour of this proposal which, by simply relaxing the existing mechanisms, gives greece the liquidity it needs in order not to hinder the investment efforts made with the help of european funds (erdf, esf) so far.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal aims to adopt specific measures for greece to help the country use the structural funds to overcome its inability to co-finance public investment projects. it is proposed to mobilise an additional eur 2 billion over two years. the counterpart to these payments is a mad austerity policy denounced by all the serious economists of the world as well as by the most orthodox institutions, such as the imf or the world bank. the aid to greece has been a bottomless pit and the austerity measures have been imposed at a loss. voting in favour of this text would be a blanket endorsement of the troika's disastrous policy. until greece has its own currency, this financial infusion will fail. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in the face of greece's catastrophic financial situation, the european commission has proposed using the european structural and investment funds. the country no longer has sufficient liquidity and therefore cannot implement investment projects that are essential for the restart of the country's growth. in this context, this solidarity measure will provide emergency cash to the country. the european parliament has approved the introduction of these specific measures for greece. these measures will have a neutral impact on the 2014-2020 budget. i voted in favour of these provisions, which are part of the continuity of the decisions taken by the european heads of state last july.
in writing. ‒ greece has been a laboratory for austerity policies. the government of alexis tsipras has tried to fight, foot by foot, against the noose that the heads of state and government of the euro zone have tried to tighten on it. in pushing for grexit, he had to accept a scandalous memorandum after a shameful blackmail. there is a lot to be said about this memorandum and whatever one thinks of the decision taken, it is urgent for greece to release these funds. greece is suffering from a severe shortage of liquidity and investment, and this requires immediate action. the european parliament has proposed, in the context of cohesion policy, the introduction of specific measures for greece, in order to allow funds to be released quickly. three exceptional measures are proposed: making 5% of immediate payments from the still blocked funds available to greece, increasing eu funding to 100% for the 2007-2013 funding period (instead of co-financing) and improving the increased pre-financing rate of €1 billion for the 2015 and 2016 projects. i'm voting for it, of course.
in writing. ‒ following the recent redundancies at adam opel ag, germany received a financial contribution from the fund of eur 6 958 623 from the european globalisation adjustment fund. this is to help reintegrate workers who are suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade, particularly in the european automotive industry, where car sales have fallen dramatically to their lowest level in twenty years. it should be noted that the small and medium-sized car manufacturers, whose prices are in the middle range, are the most affected by these developments. germany has effective and appropriate measures to find new work for dismissed workers. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i regret the institution of this instrument at european level and i await the planned revision of the legal basis. nevertheless, since this measure has been widely requested, i take the liberty of voting in favour of its mobilisation.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to this hypocritical system of the globalisation adjustment fund, but i voted in favour of this report which proposes to release eur 7 million for the reintegration of 2 692 workers made redundant by opel in germany.
in writing. on 26 february, germany submitted application egf/2015/002 de/adam opel for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies at adam opel ag and a supplier in germany. germany argues that with the crisis, car sales in europe have fallen to their lowest level since 1997. in western europe, sales fell dramatically to their lowest level in 20 years. as a result of the financial and economic crisis, the number of newly registered cars in the eu and efta member states decreased by 25% between 2007 and 2013. in total, 2,826 workers were made redundant at adam opel ag and 55 workers were made redundant at johnson controls objekt bochum gmbh & co. kg, a supplier of adam opel ag. in view of the german request, it is proposed that the egf contribute eur 6 958 623. i therefore voted in favour of the report in order to support the workers and to repair the damage caused by european policies.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to grant germany a financial contribution of eur 7 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 2 881 employees at opel. the purpose of this aid is to facilitate the reintegration of workers made redundant. while the german company saw its sales fall by 39% between 2007 and 2013, the whole european automotive sector is affected by a continuous decrease in the number of newly registered cars (-25% between 2007 and 2013). while these redundancies are directly linked to the current economic crisis and unfair competition from emerging countries, the responsibility of the american parent company general motors, which has forced opel to sell its cars only on the european market, should not be dismissed. on the one hand, this application fulfils the conditions for granting financial contributions from the egf. on the other hand, we believe it is important to help the german workers who have been made redundant and who, like the french, are suffering the disastrous consequences of unbridled globalisation. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the employees of adam opel who were made redundant following the complete closure of the production plant in bochum, germany. the amount of the aid is eur 6 958 623. 2692 redundant workers will receive training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. this aid is justified in view of the high level of global competition in the automotive sector. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the solidarity of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it concerns aid of almost eur 7 million for the reintegration of 2 692 workers made redundant by opel in germany following the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the mobilisation of eur 6 958 623 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the 2 692 people made redundant by the car manufacturer adam opel ag in germany. with an annual budget of €150 million per year for the period 2014-2020, the egf helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis. faced with international competition, some european sectors are undergoing major and sometimes costly restructuring in employment. considering that one of the purposes of european funds is to support workers and enable them to make a lasting change, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the support of the european parliament for european citizens in difficulty is essential, as in the case of people in germany facing redundancies in the automotive sector. that is why i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ the closure of the opel plant in bochum following a 39% drop in sales between 2007 and 2013 has led to a very large wave of layoffs among the plant's staff, with a considerable drop in the local economy. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund will contribute to providing germany with additional support for the reintegration of former open bochum employees.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, at the request of germany, to obtain a financial contribution from the fund of eur 6 958 623 following the dismissal of 2 881 workers at adam opel ag. the initiative is part of a drive to help workers suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to reintegrate workers made redundant in the sad context of the automotive industry in western europe, where car sales have fallen dramatically and reached their lowest point in twenty years. the small and medium-sized car manufacturers in the mid-range price range have been particularly affected, as has adam opel ag, in particular as a result of the austerity measures imposed on european countries. after examination, i consider that this application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the fund regulation. germany is considering effective and appropriate measures for redundant workers with a view to their reintegration. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr jens geier, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of the workers made redundant by opel. the fund will provide eur 6 958 623 for 2 692 employees made redundant as a result of the total cessation of activities at the production plant in bochum. this amount will be used to finance training, advisory services or business start-up grants to help beneficiaries re-enter the labour market. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the german request to mobilise the globalisation adjustment fund is well founded. it follows opel's laying off of 2,881 people during the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at adam opel ag. following the complete shutdown of the opel production plant in bochum, almost three thousand workers were made redundant at opel and at a supplier. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in international trade. the european union is not providing a structural solution to these problems. on the contrary, as a promoter of globalization, it is part of it. however, if the egf can help to reintegrate displaced workers into the labour market, it cannot be opposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it provides almost €7 million for the reintegration of 2 692 workers made redundant by opel in germany because of a drop in global demand linked to the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ opel's site in the german ruhr closed its doors and laid off nearly 3,000 employees. yet the german brand is owned by general motors, now europe's third largest automaker, which generates a growing revenue of 156 billion in 2014. the rapporteur denounces the attitude of the parent company general motors, 'which allowed it to sell its vehicles only in europe and thus excluded it from emerging markets on other continents' and also stresses 'that the austerity measures imposed on european countries have contributed to the dramatic fall in sales of opel/vauxhall', without, however, proposing to put an end to the absurd austerity policies... we must not lose sight of the desire of american manufacturers to strike at the european car industry, as the volkswagen case suggests. i am abstaining in order not to oppose the granting of this fund to the redundant victims of german neoliberal policy, while denouncing these multinationals which relocate to asia, from where they then export to european markets.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, at the request of germany, for a financial contribution from the fund of eur 6 958 623 following 2 881 redundancies at adam opel ag. this initiative is part of a desire to help workers suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to reintegrate displaced workers into the sad context of the automobile industry in western europe, where car sales have fallen dramatically and reached their lowest point in twenty years. the small and medium-sized car manufacturers in the mid-range price range have been particularly affected, as has adam opel ag, in particular as a result of the austerity measures imposed on european countries. after examination, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the fund regulation. germany is considering effective and appropriate measures for redundant workers with a view to their reintegration. for these reasons, the honourable member voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the report calls for almost €7 million to help 2,692 workers made redundant by opel in germany. indeed, it is established that this 'restructuring' is linked to the financial and economic crisis that has hit europe since 2008 and which has broken down domestic demand throughout the union (even if this phenomenon was accelerated by the absurd austerity policy orchestrated by the commission). although it may seem strange to see the union coming to the rescue of workers who have been made redundant when it is largely responsible for the causes of these redundancies (namely international competition and the breakdown of domestic demand) and even though these subsidies may be discouraging and disempowering for large companies, i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted three reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of all three of his reports. the aim of the fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 6 958 623 from the fund to 2692 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of the company adam opel ag in germany. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of the fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to approve the disbursement of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to adam opel ag of germany following the closure of the bochum plant in the deindustrialised ruhr area (2881 redundancies). the emff is designed to compensate and provide financial support to european companies that have closed down because of an inability to remain competitive on the world market, so that they can engage in social policies to reorient employees. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to provide the necessary information to the commission. although the justifications for the payment of these funds to this company seem legitimate, i decided to abstain, finding that the report does not go far enough in denouncing a european trade policy that favours relocations to asia.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for almost €7 million to help 2,692 workers made redundant by opel in germany. indeed, it is established that this 'restructuring' is linked to the financial and economic crisis that has broken down domestic demand throughout the eu since 2008 (even if this phenomenon was accelerated by the absurd austerity policy orchestrated by the commission). while it may seem strange to see the eu coming to the rescue of workers made redundant when it is largely responsible for the causes of these redundancies (namely international competition and the breakdown of domestic demand), and while these subsidies can undoubtedly relieve large companies of their responsibility, i decided to vote in favour of this text to support the workers made redundant, victims of this absurd system.
in writing. ‒ the process of globalisation has opened up european markets to international competition, bringing economic and structural changes to our businesses. the union has set up a european globalisation adjustment fund to mitigate the effects of globalisation on european economies, but above all on workers. the commission notes that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles laid down in the eea agreement and in particular article 107 (3) (c) thereof. eur 6 958 623 was requested. i support this request and stress the importance of this fund to help workers in the industrial sector to access new training and to reorient themselves to other, more dynamic sectors.
in writing. ‒ this text follows belgium's request for a financial contribution of eur 6 268 564 from the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of 5 111 redundancies, most of them at ford genk. the aim here is to help workers who are suffering the full effects of the major changes in the world economy, as is shown by the disastrous situation of the belgian automobile industry, which last year experienced a sharp decline in production even as world production was increasing. the redundancies at ford genk will have a major impact on the province of limburg where the company was the largest employer. i therefore believe that, since this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the fund regulation, i have therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i regret the institution of this instrument at european level and i await the planned revision of the legal basis. however, since this mechanism is widely sought, i shall vote in favour of its being used on a case-by-case basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, knowing that this 'adjustment fund' is only a starting point: if the european union really wants to combat the harmful effects of globalisation, it must renounce the dogma of the free movement of goods and people and no longer hinder the introduction of protectionist measures. until we change this aberrant system, i am in favour of using this fund to help the 4 500 workers laid off by ford in belgium.
in writing. on 24 march 2015, belgium submitted application egf/2015/003 be/ford genk for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies at ford genk and 11 suppliers and downstream producers in belgium. belgium argued that the european automotive industry had lost considerable market share over the past decade. production of passenger cars decreased by 14.6% in the eu-27 between 2007 and 2012. during the same period, china more than doubled its market share in passenger car production. the economic and financial crisis has worsened the situation of the european automotive industry, which has also been hampered by import restrictions in third countries such as argentina, brazil and russia, while the eu continues to open its borders without any restrictions. i nevertheless voted for eur 6 268 564 to support the 3 701 workers made redundant at ford genk and 1 180 workers made redundant at 11 suppliers or downstream producers of ford genk.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to grant belgium a financial contribution of around eur 6.3 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 5 111 employees, including 3 701 at ford genk. this financial aid corresponds to 60% of the total estimated cost of the proposed measures as provided for in the egf regulation and is intended to facilitate the reintegration of workers made redundant. while china managed to double its market share in the automotive sector, the eu member states saw their sales of new cars fall by 14.6% between 2007 and 2012. these results show that the fall in sales and the many redundancies in the european automobile sector are mainly due to unfair competition from emerging countries, with china at the forefront. the social, environmental and monetary dumping they practice is never denounced by the european institutions, which deplore the effects of which they cherish the causes. even if these funds are not a lasting solution to the problems of runaway globalisation, we believe it is important to help the displaced workers in belgium. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the workers made redundant at ford genk in belgium. the amount of the aid is eur 6 268 564. 4881 employees will be able to benefit from training aimed at reintegration into the world of work. the request is justified in view of the decline of the belgian automotive sector in the face of increasing international competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it concerns aid of more than eur 6 million for the reintegration of 4 500 workers made redundant by ford in belgium following the drop in demand due to globalisation.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the mobilisation of eur 6 268 564 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the 4500 people made redundant by the automobile manufacturer ford genk in belgium. with an annual budget of €150 million per year for the period 2014-2020, the egf helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis. faced with international competition, some european sectors are undergoing major and sometimes costly restructuring in employment. considering that one of the purposes of european funds is to support workers in this context and to enable them to make a lasting change of career, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the support of the european parliament for european citizens in difficulty is essential, as in the case of people in belgium facing redundancies in the automotive sector. that is why i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ the closure of the ford plant in genk following a decline in production of some cars and sales of new cars within the eu, mainly to the benefit of asian manufacturers, led to the dismissal of all the plant's staff. a very large wave of layoffs among the factory staff, with a considerable drop in the local economy. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund will contribute to providing belgium with the additional support needed for the reintegration of former ford genk employees.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, at the request of belgium, to obtain a financial contribution from the fund of eur 6 268 564 following 5 111 redundancies, most of them at ford genk. the initiative is therefore part of a desire to help workers suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to reintegrate workers made redundant, in a dire situation where the belgian automobile industry has experienced a decline in production of 15.58%, while world production increased by 18.9%. the redundancies at ford genk seriously damage the social fabric of the province of limburg where the company was the largest employer. after examination, i consider that this application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the fund regulation. belgium is committed to taking effective and appropriate measures to reintegrate workers who have been made redundant. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague paul rubig on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of the redundant employees of ford in belgium. the fund will provide eur 6 268 564 for the 4 881 redundant employees to finance training, counselling services or start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because belgium's request for financial assistance from the european adjustment fund follows the dismissal of more than 5000 people by ford belgium, and therefore justifies the use of this instrument.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by ford in genk, belgium. following the permanent closure of the ford plant in genk, more than five thousand workers were laid off at ford and at 11 downstream suppliers or producers. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in international trade. the european union does not provide a structural solution to these problems. on the contrary, as a promoter of globalization, it is part of it. however, if the egf can help to reintegrate displaced workers into the labour market, it cannot be opposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it provides more than €6 million for the reintegration of 4,500 workers made redundant by ford in belgium because of the fall in global demand linked to the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ last year, ford's belgian site closed, laying off 4,500 people. that same year, 2014, ford made $3.5 billion in profits. probably related to the increase in ford car production in china by 49% in the same year. we are here being asked to support the relocation of the automotive industry through a european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). once again, the fund is playing its destructive role well. instead of helping workers it encourages shareholders and states to embrace the social irresponsibility of capitalism. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, at the request of belgium, for a financial contribution from the fund of eur 6 268 564 following 5 111 redundancies, most of them at ford genk. the initiative is therefore part of a desire to help workers suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to reintegrate workers made redundant, in a dire situation where the belgian automobile industry has experienced a decline in production of 15.58%, while world production increased by 18.9%. the redundancies at ford genk seriously damage the social fabric of the province of limburg where the company was the largest employer. after examination, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the fund regulation. belgium is committed to taking effective and appropriate measures to reintegrate workers who have been made redundant. the member voted in favour.
in writing. this report calls for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide €6.3 million in support for the reintegration of the 4500 workers made redundant by ford in belgium. the file clearly shows that this restructuring is linked to the major structural change in international trade due to globalisation and the slowing growth in asia as well as to the increased international competition. i voted in favour of this aid to help these workers reintegrate, even though i believe that these subsidies can relieve the big employers of their responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted three reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of all three reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament gave its consent to the release of eur 6 268 564 from the fund to 4881 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of ford genk and 11 subcontractors in belgium. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. the resolution aims to validate the disbursement of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the belgian company ford genk following the closure of its entire plant in the limburg region (loss of 8000 jobs). the emff was designed to contribute financially to the reintegration into employment of people made redundant by a european company whose closure was caused by an inability to remain economically competitive in a globalised market. the scale of the social consequences of the closure and the economic justification for it (decline in belgian car exports of 16.41% in 3 years) clearly justify the use of the emff. nevertheless, this report includes an amendment calling on the commission to carry out an economic study on the asian and south american markets to inform european manufacturers of the changing requirements in terms of competitiveness in these markets. this would be tantamount to asking the commission to encourage these manufacturers to relocate. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide €6.3 million in support for the reintegration of the 4 500 workers made redundant by ford in belgium. the file clearly shows that this restructuring is linked to the major structural change in international trade due to globalisation and the slowing growth in asia as well as to the increased international competition. i voted in favour of this aid to help these workers reintegrate, even though i believe that these subsidies can relieve the big employers of their responsibilities. a real change in the economic model and intelligent protectionism would be more effective than these short-term relief measures.
in writing. ‒ the automotive industry has been strongly affected by global competition and the increasing relocation of production sites. the direct consequence is the closure of european sites and the dismissal of many european workers. the union has set up a european globalisation adjustment fund to mitigate the effects of globalisation on workers. this fund was requested by belgium for eur 6 268 564 following the closure of the ford genk plant. i support this request and stress the importance of this fund to help workers in the industrial sector to access new training and to reorient themselves to other, more dynamic sectors.
in writing. ‒ following the 1 249 redundancies at gruppo alitalia, italy has applied for approximately €1.5 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund. this is an initiative to help workers suffering from the consequences of the changes brought about by economic globalisation, in particular with a view to their reintegration. i can only deplore the situation in the airline industry in europe, whose market shares are falling under pressure from gulf airlines and turkey in particular. after examination, it appears that this application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the fund regulation, since italy undertakes to take effective and appropriate measures for the reintegration of the workers made redundant. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i regret the institution of this instrument at european level and i await the planned revision of the legal basis. however, since this mechanism is widely sought, i shall vote in favour of its being used on a case-by-case basis.
in writing. ‒ while i voted in favour of unlocking this aid for italian employees who are victims of ultra-liberalism and unfair competition imposed on alitalia, i continue to denounce the inconsistency of this european union which is acting like a pyromaniac fireman.
in writing. on 24 march 2015, italy submitted application egf/2015/004 it/alitalia for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the italian gruppo alitalia. italy argued that, despite the fact that the international air transport market worldwide remained dominated by european airlines, the sector suffered from serious economic disruptions, in particular a decline in the european union's market share. the considerable increase in the number of passengers carried to and from italy by gulf airlines and turkish airlines has been to the detriment of alitalia. during the reference period, 1 247 workers were made redundant at gruppo alitalia. in view of the italian request, it is therefore proposed that the egf contribute to the coordinated package of personalised services to the amount of eur 1 414 848. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to grant a financial contribution of around eur 1.4 million to italy from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the 1249 redundancies at alitalia, the main italian airline. the purpose of this aid is to facilitate the reintegration of workers who have been made redundant. the european air transport market is experiencing serious economic disruption and has seen its market shares fall considerably, mainly due to unfair competition from the gulf countries and turkey. in the face of this scourge, the european commission is continuing its work on trade liberalization, which is at the origin of these social plans. the european institutions should act upstream by fighting social, environmental, fiscal and monetary dumping by emerging countries instead of coming to the rescue of companies in receivership and workers made redundant. in solidarity with the italian workers who have been made redundant and who, like the french, are suffering the disastrous consequences of unbridled globalisation, i can only approve the mobilisation of these funds. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ meps have accepted the request from italy for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of alitalia's employees, who are severely affected by the employment consequences of globalisation. the amount of the aid is eur 1 414 848. 184 redundant employees will receive training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. international competition in the air transport sector has led to a decrease in the union market share, which justifies the request to mobilise the fund. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it concerns aid of eur 1.4 million for the reintegration of 184 workers made redundant by alitalia in italy.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the mobilisation of eur 1 414 848 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the 180 people made redundant by the air carrier alitalia in italy. with an annual budget of €150 million per year for the period 2014-2020, the egf helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis. faced with international competition, some european sectors are undergoing major and sometimes costly restructuring in terms of employment. considering that one of the purposes of european funds is to support workers in this context and to enable them to make a lasting change of career, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the support of the european parliament for european citizens in difficulty is essential, as in the case of people in italy facing redundancies in the civil aviation sector. that is why i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the financial and economic crisis, the international air transport market has been severely disrupted. european airlines are facing increased competition from airlines from the gulf countries and turkey. in italy, alitalia had to lay off many employees as a result of these losses in market share, with very negative repercussions on the local economy. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund will contribute to providing belgium with the additional support necessary for the reintegration of former alitalia employees.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, at the request of italy, with a view to obtaining a financial contribution from the fund of eur 1 414 848 following 1 249 redundancies at gruppo alitalia. the initiative is therefore part of a desire to help workers suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to reintegrate workers made redundant in the sad context of the international air transport market which has suffered serious economic disruption. it is indeed regrettable that the union's market share has declined sharply and that the number of passengers carried by gulf and turkish airlines has increased considerably, to the detriment of european airlines such as alitalia. after examination, i consider that this application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the fund regulation. italy is committed to taking effective and appropriate measures to reintegrate workers made redundant. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague monika vana on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the benefit of the workers made redundant by alitalia. the fund will provide eur 1 400 000 to 184 redundant employees to finance training, counselling services or start-up grants to help them re-enter the labour market. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the italian request follows the dismissal of 1 250 people in one of alitalia's divisions. the mobilisation of the european adjustment fund will enable the training and replacement of many of these staff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by gruppo alitalia in italy. the claim concerns 184 of the 1 249 workers made redundant by alitalia. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in international trade. the european union does not provide a structural solution to these problems. on the contrary, as a promoter of globalization, it is part of it. however, if the egf can help to reintegrate displaced workers into the labour market, it cannot be opposed.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it provides €1.4 million for 184 workers made redundant by alitalia in italy as a result of the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 414 848 to help 184 of the 1 249 workers made redundant at gruppo alitalia. the italian authorities claim that the redundancies at gruppo alitalia are the result of the decrease in the number of passengers carried in 2014, combined with the accumulated losses since the full privatisation of alitalia in 2009. now 49% owned by the uae airline etihad airways, the company is facing restructuring. i cannot vote for this fund which does not even concern 10% of the workers made redundant and which validates a disastrous policy. my thoughts are with the employees of air france who are facing the same fate. i abstain so as not to deprive the italian workers of this alms.
in writing. ‒ this text is part of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, at the request of italy, with a view to obtaining a financial contribution from the fund of eur 1 414 848 following 1 249 redundancies at gruppo alitalia. the initiative is therefore part of a desire to help workers suffering the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to reintegrate workers made redundant in the sad context of the international air transport market which has suffered serious economic disruption. it is indeed regrettable that the union's market share has declined sharply and that the number of passengers carried by gulf and turkish airlines has increased considerably, to the detriment of european airlines such as alitalia. after examination, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria laid down in the fund regulation. italy is committed to taking effective and appropriate measures to reintegrate workers made redundant. i voted for it.
in writing. this report concerns the decision of the european parliament and the council of the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 1.4 million to help 184 workers made redundant by the alitalia group and to ensure their reintegration into the labour market. this restructuring is not unrelated to the international competition in the aviation sector, which also affects air france. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament adopted three reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of all three reports. the purpose of this fund is to enable employees who have been made redundant to receive personalised training so that they can re-enter the workforce. the european parliament has given its approval for the release of eur 1.4 million from the fund for 184 beneficiaries who are dismissed employees of the company alitalia in italy. in these difficult times, the mobilisation of this fund is essential. it is imperative that personalised training is provided to redundant workers so that they can return to work as soon as possible. the european parliament once again demonstrates its commitment to one of the founding values of the european union: solidarity.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the decision of the european parliament and the council of the european union to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 1.4 million to help 184 workers made redundant by the alitalia group and to ensure their reintegration into the labour market. this restructuring is not unrelated to the international competition in the aviation sector, which also affects air france. this is a structural problem which merits far more effective solutions. but these solutions are never considered in the union and, in the meantime, i have decided to vote in favour of this text which helps the workers.
in writing. ‒ today, the european aviation sector is under very high pressure, especially in the face of the emergence of competitors from the gulf countries. some european airlines, such as alitalia, have had to restructure and have been forced to lay off some of their staff. in order to support european workers, italy has applied for the globalisation adjustment fund. i voted in favour of this request for eur 1.4 million. this aid will make it possible, in particular, to offer specialised training to workers made redundant, facilitating their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ this resolution encourages developing country states to transfer part of their budgetary resources to local authorities. the aim is to ensure the proper, accountable and transparent governance of local authorities and civil society organisations. i have opposed this text because it directly concerns the organization of the states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which excludes states from european aid policies for developing countries. it is not for the european union to decide, especially since it shows every day that it pursues interests which are not those of its member states.
in writing. this report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation tells us that it is essential to ensure good, transparent and accountable governance of local authorities and civil society organisations. the report urges the european union to promote decentralised cooperation as a means of implementing the development of a post-2015 framework and encourages national governments to transfer resources to the local or regional level (decentralisation). the report considers that this would be a means of combating corruption, particularly in multinational companies. i strongly oppose the recommendations of this report because i believe that the organisation of states is a choice that directly affects them and that decentralisation will in no way limit corruption. on the contrary, in europe, decentralisation increases costs, constraints and encourages arrangements at the local level. finally, this report seeks to undermine the sovereignty of states and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation'. the report excludes states from european development aid policies. the beneficiary states must be able to allocate development aid according to their national policy wishes.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends promoting decentralisation in developing countries and encouraging governments to transfer some of their powers to local authorities. the rapporteur believes that decentralisation would be the most effective way of combating corruption in elected officials, particularly by the representatives of the large groups, and would help to meet the needs of those they administer. to this end, national governments are strongly encouraged to make large budgetary transfers to local authorities. the european commission, true to itself, is trying to spread its mistaken vision of territorial organization. decentralisation does not in any way limit the corruption of elected officials, nor does it make budgetary savings possible. we see that in europe, and especially in france, it is a source of red tape, of unnecessary duplication of administrative work and is costly for the taxpayer. finally, territorial organization is a matter for the states and the european institutions do not have to interfere in the national affairs of sovereign countries. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the role of local authorities is crucial for development cooperation. decentralised cooperation has shown beneficial results in sharing good practice. it is important that such cooperation should provide incentives for good governance and the fight against corruption. the european union is very advanced in terms of social and economic structures. it must be able to export its values and standards to the world. decentralised cooperation is one way of achieving this. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the eu to promote decentralised cooperation as a means of implementing the development of a post-2015 framework. it stresses the need to encourage national governments to transfer part of their national budgetary resources to regional and local government levels. the organization of states is a matter of choice which affects them directly. so it would be an interference. the proposal could undermine the sovereignty of states and does not contribute in any way to curbing corruption, contrary to what the rapporteur points out. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report highlights the importance of good local governance in developing countries in order to address the challenges of social exclusion, food security, rapid urbanisation, resource depletion, public security and violence, adaptation to climate change, and the rule of law and access to justice. considering that the development of effective local administrations and their links with civil society should be promoted, i voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report to strengthen the role of local authorities in our development cooperation. strategic planning at the local level is crucial to engaging public opinion and enhancing the effectiveness of our development assistance.
in writing. ‒ having supported a decentralised cooperation policy with several cities and provinces in the south, and in particular in burkina faso, for more than 10 years as head of a regional executive, i would like to highlight some key proposals in this report which are in the right direction and are likely to advance practices. i fully support the need to maintain the development aid and decentralised cooperation budgets which are the driving forces in the fight against poverty, conflict, humanitarian and climate crises, and therefore will limit the massive flows of people which are destabilising for both the south and the north. beyond the political impetus, i also support the involvement of the public, the private sector and civil society in these procedures. the needs diagnosis must emerge locally. similarly, the exchange of know-how on both sides must be strengthened by a network of micro-projects. finally, i encourage states to transfer budgetary resources to regional and local governments, which are better placed to encourage the proliferation of projects that link communities in the south and the north and create shared solidarities that are fundamental to human progress.
in writing. ‒ the report sought to impose an obligation on member states to federate their territory. the european union is once again trying to force the states to push to the absurd a decentralisation which has far from benefited our country. both in terms of overlapping responsibilities and in terms of increasing costs, decentralisation is far from producing the desired effects. thus, by forcing the states to organise their own territory, the european union is pursuing its project of undermining the sovereignty of the states. as the territorial reform of merging regions has already shown in france, these reforms of the territorial organization of the states are imprecise and risky projects. it is inconceivable that a country, one of whose main attributes of sovereignty is control over the organisation of its territory, can be deprived of its royal prerogatives. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i believe that cooperation must remain the responsibility of the states.
in writing. ‒ the success of development policy also depends on local authorities being able to face the realities and needs of the population on a daily basis and to grasp the territorial, economic, social and cultural issues perfectly. i believe that local authorities can be a driver of development and that is why i am advocating that they be associated with the sustainable development strategy. the report by mrs theocharous rightly highlights this dimension by showing how well local authorities are able to communicate with civil society organisations, to understand and respond to very concrete challenges such as social exclusion, insecurity, lack of basic infrastructure, rapid urbanisation... the question of local governance and the degree of autonomy granted to these authorities by the central government is very clear. this is a subject on which i believe the eu should work actively in consultation with the countries concerned.
in writing. ‒ this resolution encourages states to transfer part of their budgetary resources to local authorities. the aim is to ensure the proper, accountable and transparent governance of local authorities and civil society organisations. i have opposed this text because it directly concerns the organization of the states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague eleni theocharous on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. the text stresses the importance of good local governance in addressing the many challenges facing local authorities in developing countries. this quality is due in particular to the political will of the central authorities to create a favourable environment at local level and to grant sufficient autonomy to adapt to the realities on the ground. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because strategic planning at local level is essential in development cooperation. the report proposes the establishment of decentralised cooperation, giving local authorities a role to play in making european development aid more effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. i believe that it is necessary to recognise the role of these authorities as major actors in the implementation of decentralised cooperation by giving them sufficient space in development programmes. in this report, we want to emphasise the importance of involving the private sector and civil society in development programmes, but also call for the development of reliable sustainable development indicators.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. it stresses the 'need' to encourage national governments to transfer part of their national budgetary resources to regional and local government levels. the rapporteur considers that decentralisation of power is an effective means of combating corruption, including that from multinational corporations, and that it would contribute to the modernisation of public administration by responding to people's needs through economic and social reforms. however, decentralisation can certainly undermine the sovereignty of states and does nothing to limit corruption. in the european countries, this mode of organization has only led to a multiplication of costs and the entanglement of competences.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this development aid text for two reasons: firstly, because it strips the donor states of their sovereignty for the benefit of the eu; secondly, because it too radically prevents the recipient states from using this aid as they see fit.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against this report. the text aims to encourage excessive decentralisation to ensure greater transparency and to combat corruption. according to the author, the transfer of budgetary resources to local levels and the strengthening of their financial capacity should be sufficient to ensure proper, transparent and accountable governance of local authorities. we oppose this report for two reasons: firstly, on principle, because the organisation of the states is a sovereign decision which concerns them directly, and the eu does not have to impose it on them. secondly, because the european reality proves that decentralization does not work: in all european countries that have implemented it, this mode of organization has led to a multiplication of costs and a tangle of competences that slows down the system more than it relieves it.
in writing. ‒ this generous report calls for cooperation with local authorities in the framework of development aid to promote decentralised cooperation. the commission is therefore proposing to take greater account of civil society, minorities, environmental issues, etc. this has been going on for 30 years, but the text also recalls the essential role that the private sector plays in development, for example by promoting public-private partnerships. finally, while it intends to define the new millennium development goals (mdgs), the report will not really have an impact on the global development agenda since the new mdgs (now the sustainable development goals) were just decided by the un in september. for all these reasons, i shall abstain rather than vote against as common sense would suggest.
in writing. ‒ this resolution encourages states to transfer part of their budgetary resources to local authorities. the aim is to ensure the proper, accountable and transparent governance of local authorities and civil society organisations. moreover, this problem is a matter for the states. the member voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on the eu to promote decentralised cooperation in its development aid programmes. it stresses the need to encourage national governments in the countries concerned to transfer part of their national budgetary resources to regional and local levels. the report takes the, at least questionable, view that decentralisation of power is an effective means of combating corruption, particularly that of multinational companies, and that it would contribute to the modernisation of public administration. the administrative organisation of the states is a sovereign choice in which the eu does not have to interfere. moreover, decentralisation, far from helping to curb corruption, has been one of the main drivers in countries such as france. in addition, it has only led to a multiplication of costs and a confusion of powers. the report cannot therefore be supported.
in writing. this scandalous report calls for sovereign member states to adopt a decentralized civil society organization as a means of developing a post-2015 framework. the eu, and no more a member of the european parliament, can give such orders to the states, especially when it comes to dismantling them in favour of the territorial collectivities! the report encourages governments to transfer part of their budgetary resources to regional and local levels. this interference by european institutions, which have no sovereignty or legitimacy, shows the eu's true purpose: to destroy any idea of a central state and nation. the irony of this report is boundless. it is said that the local level would be the source of less corruption whereas electoral patronage is often king... the organisation of states is a matter of sovereign choice and the eu does not have to interfere. and if i had to remove one tier, i would choose the eu without hesitation! i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the theocharous report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. closer to citizens than other public institutions, local authorities have a responsibility to mobilise local public opinion, while acting as catalysts for change, including towards more efficient public administration, more open development processes, in cooperation with civil society organisations, and solutions to the urgent challenges facing local communities. these challenges include social exclusion, migration, food security, limited infrastructure, rapid urbanisation, resource depletion, public security and violence, environmental and social consequences of extractive activities, adaptation to and mitigation of climate change, the rule of law and access to justice. good governance at local level is necessary to achieve sustainable development and equitable outcomes.
in writing. ‒ this scandalous report calls for sovereign member states to adopt a decentralised civil society organisation as a means of developing a post-2015 framework. the eu, and no more a member of the european parliament, can give such orders to the states, especially when it comes to dismantling them in favour of the territorial collectivities! the report encourages governments to transfer part of their budgetary resources to regional and local levels. this interference by european institutions, which have no sovereignty or legitimacy, shows the eu's true purpose: to destroy any idea of a central state and nation. the unintentional comedy of this report is boundless. it is said that the local level would be the source of less corruption whereas electoral patronage is often king... the organization of states is a matter for the sovereign choice of the people and the eu does not have to interfere. and if we have to eliminate one tier, i will choose the eu without hesitation! i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ european development policy is a broad policy based on several levels: international, european, national and regional. local authorities play a key role in disseminating this policy and in setting up and monitoring european projects locally. the european parliament adopted a text emphasising the role of these actors in promoting development cooperation policy. these actors are in constant contact with local realities and the civil community. i voted in favour of this resolution and i stress the importance of including these actors in the definition and management of development cooperation policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which supports the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. local authorities in developing countries, in coordination with other legitimate actors, will play a leading role in implementing the public policies needed to meet the post-2015 development social, economic and environmental objectives. the european union must support their action. in particular, it will have to use the european development fund and the development cooperation instrument to provide financial and budgetary support. another lever for action will be the establishment of cooperation partnerships between local authorities in the member states and those in developing countries. finally, let us institutionalize a genuine political dialogue with these local actors within the framework of european cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which underlines that good governance is fundamental to achieving sustainable development and equitable outcomes. by their nature closer to citizens than other european and national public institutions, local authorities have the capacity to mobilise public opinion and the duty to be the instigators of change by making public administration more efficient, by instituting more open development processes and by cooperating closely with civil society organisations. in this european year of development, it was important to recall that local authorities and public administrations must also be able to respond to current challenges such as migration, social exclusion, food security, security, the rule of law and climate change.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the european union must be at the forefront of achieving the new goals. the theocharous report aims to underline the importance of local authorities as democratic institutions of proximity. the text, while enshrining the principle of decentralisation, rightly points out that decentralisation which merely transfers powers without budgetary transfers is doomed to failure. it stressed the key role played by local authorities in dialogue with civil society and in maintaining close links with businesses, and the need to support these authorities so that they can provide quality public services. it is a balanced text, which i have chosen to support, even though i voted for the deletion of the mention in favour of public-private partnerships, because i remain convinced that services of general interest should be fully publicly managed.
in writing. ‒ the organisation of states is a choice which directly affects them. decentralisation can certainly undermine the sovereignty of states and does nothing to curb corruption. in the european countries, this mode of organization has only led to a multiplication of costs and the entanglement of competences. i opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ the millennium development goals, adopted in 2000, are far from being achieved and the un has just adopted 17 new sustainable development goals. yet, despite the fine speeches, public aid for development aid is plummeting in many countries, including france. the own-initiative report which has been presented to us today attempts to take stock of the contribution made by local authorities in developing countries in the context of development cooperation. the report stresses the importance of local authorities, public services and civil society in implementing development cooperation and proposes that development aid be better targeted at them in order to avoid the monopoly of aid by national authorities and to direct it towards the population. if i can only support this idea, i regret that this report is in line with the usual liberal orientations and promotes a greater share of private funding in this aid and the use of loans rather than donations. that is not the way to achieve the objectives we have set, and i abstain.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. are there any observations? no, i'm not going. the minutes of the previous sitting are hereby approved.
madam president, this is obviously a very important matter, but i think the procedure requires that it be referred to the conference of presidents before it can be included in the agenda. we will therefore give due consideration to your request on this important subject.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on emission measures in the automotive sector, by giovanni la via, vicky ford, jerzy buzek and michael cramer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism (o-000113/2015 - b8-0764/2015) (2015/2865 (((rsp)).
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, the revelation of the volkswagen scandal by the american authorities has struck everyone like a thunderbolt in the blue sky. there are still many questions to be answered, but we can learn from them and, above all, seek the truth. firstly, fraud is unacceptable and must be punished. volkswagen tried to cheat, volkswagen lost, and the whole thing was a bust. you're only as good as your last shot. it is a real betrayal of consumers because their health is at stake, their environment is at stake, of public authorities and all those who, like me, defend a responsible, innovative and job-creating european industry. it is a shameful act which could bring reproach on our entire automotive sector and threatens to permanently damage the credibility of the european industry in the world and, amongst others, across the atlantic, in the ttip negotiations. that said, it is imperative that we prevent the diesel fraud scandal from becoming an oil slick. it would not be the right solution to predict the imminent end of diesel, when many of our citizens with modest incomes drive diesel vehicles and small and mediumsized enterprises use diesel commercial vehicles. we know that in europe we have a real technological advantage over clean diesel. it would therefore be a mistake to condemn diesel today and the automobile industry which uses diesel. of course, commissioner, you have made a number of proposals to us, and we expect that the type approval tests will be carried out as quickly as possible in real driving situations. i also wonder about the realism of our environmental legislation. aren't we sometimes too ambitious? it is true that when it comes to air quality and health, ambition is necessary, but also pragmatism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr. eickhout, i hope you'll excuse me, i didn't have your name on my document.
mr. buonanno, i need you to listen to me for a second. i don't think the shirt you're wearing is appropriate for this room. sir, i think you need to be careful what you're doing. your shirt is not at all suited to this speaker. (speaker wears a t-shirt with a picture of angela merkel depicted with a hitler-style mustache)
the volkswagen scandal reminds us that in 2015 breathing kills. 400 000 premature deaths are caused by pollution every year in europe. this is the reality. if we want to protect the health of citizens and the climate, we need to change things in transport in europe. fine particulate air pollution from diesel, that's enough! the co2 emissions from the whole truck, that's enough! but for that to change, everyone has to do their part to serve the common good. so on may 30, 2014, the international council on clean transportation (icct) published an investigation that showed that car manufacturers cheat on diesel testing. for 18 months, the information was known. no one has reacted, not the european commission, not the member states, and still less the manufacturers. how can we sit back and watch this kind of thing happen? today, i'm asking you for transparency, and i'm not the only one. there are already 120,000 people who have signed a petition calling for it. i ask you, the europeans, to shed light on this scandal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of september the revelation of the volkswagen fraud shocked both sides of the atlantic. diesel cars on the market in the united states emitted 5 to 35 times the amount of nitrogen dioxide allowed by u.s. standards. the question is only approached from an ideological and environmental point of view, whereas it is primarily a technical question. i would like to remind you of a basic law of thermodynamics: all combustion produces emissions, all is a proportion of the various gases emitted, but pollution remains. a technical detail: to make more efficient engines, the combustion rate in the cylinders must be increased. this means that the vehicle uses less fuel per kilometre, releases less badly burned hydrocarbons, and gains acceleration power. volkswagen diesel engines no longer produce carbon monoxide, which is good for health and the environment, but a lot of nitrogen oxides, which is more objectionable, of course. this brings us to the heart of the matter, for carbon monoxide, when in contact with nitrogen dioxide, would convert it into simple nitrogen, a perfectly harmless gas. the father of modern chemistry, lavoisier, said 250 years ago: "nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed". what is wrong with volkswagen? the mistake of its engineers was to produce powerful engines that produced little carbon dioxide and a lot of nitrogen dioxide, when they claimed otherwise. from a legal point of view, it's a big scandal, but from an environmental point of view, what they did is neutral. the american standards are impossible to meet for small cars and they were not set to protect the environment but to undermine the irresistible rise of the european volkswagen group, which in july 2015 became the world's leading car manufacturer. in short, the volkswagengate is a side-effect of the economic war between the united states and a section of european industry. the analysis must therefore be technical, even chemical and strategic. the environmental aspect is only a tool for the use of antagonistic powers. the environment is a lever of protectionism in the 21st century. europeans must get rid of all naivety in this area. this is particularly urgent in view of the cop 21 which will take place in paris in december.
mr president, commissioner, i must say that i was appalled by your speech. with the volkswagen scandal, we are faced with a health and environmental crime, we are faced with an organized gang scam, we are faced with tax evasion and, in the end, you are not proposing anything serious. if you want to regain the trust of europeans, you obviously have to check all the national authorities where the collusion of the states and the car industry is proven. if you want to regain the trust of europeans, you obviously have to get off diesel, since it has been shown that diesel is a major factor in the deaths of tens of thousands of europeans. if you want to win the trust of europeans, stop working on the european lie. we set targets and the european commission, together with the car manufacturers, organizes flexibilities, organizes a complete disconnect between what is promised to europeans and what is actually done. so, ma'am, if you want to reassure them, work, but work hard.
mr president, a lot has been said. i would like to focus on two points. today, in the name of the principle of subsidiarity, it must be said that the member states have full latitude in the implementation of the tests, that a model tested in one state is valid for all other states and that the sanctions are, moreover, not mandatory and only make fairly light recommendations. in short, we have defined the standards and then left them to the member states. and secondly, while we have known for a long time that the bench test conditions were not valid -- we have known since 2007 -- we have waited and postponed until 2017, that is, ten years later, our ability to improve things. i would like to make a second point. i have heard colleagues marvel at the american controls. i will simply remind you that in another system, the us financial controllers have imposed over 70 billion fines on our own financial agents after they were responsible for the 2008 crisis and after they sent us subprime loans. beware of that.
mr president, commissioner, you said at the beginning of your speech that there is only one company that has cheated in europe. how do you know that? how can we know that when no serious investigation has been carried out and when for years warnings have been issued and nothing has happened? commissioner, do you think it is enough for a ceo to come and make amends, take a few million from one side and then say: "circulate, there is nothing to see"? now, let's look to the future: how do you want us to solve the problems that are arising? you must defend the general european interest. the general interest of europe is like democracy: it is more transparency, it is the fight against conflicts of interest. we need to separate the controls of the auto industry and the oil interests or the interests of the states. the first thing your commission should do, madam commissioner, is to ensure that an independent european authority, financed by european money, can monitor. the health of 500 million consumers is at stake.
mr president, for the past 20 years the european union has been steadily raising its standards for road vehicle emissions to combat the scourge of air pollution and to try to curb climate change, but the levels of emissions are still above the current standards. it's a reality that can no longer be denied. we have a political responsibility, but also a moral responsibility, to act to stop this. the european union has for too long turned a blind eye to the shortcomings of pollution tests which do not reflect real emission conditions. the volkswagen scandal exposes a biased and outdated system. diesel must no longer be encouraged and european manufacturers must change their production to stay in the race. last june the socialists in the committee on transport and tourism had already taken the initiative of tabled amendments in favour of real-world pollution tests. commissioner, what is the state of play in the commission's work to ensure that these new tests come into force as soon as possible? can you guarantee that these tests will be as stringent as possible? does the commission intend to set up an autonomous european agency for the control of pollutant emissions? the general interest must guide our action and the socialists will remain vigilant and mobilised so that the commission can respond to it.
in writing. the volkswagen scandal shocked europe and seriously tarnished the reputation of the european automobile industry. how could a well-known and well-established company take such a risk? in view of the enormity of the fraud, it is no longer a matter of a mistake in the course but, on the contrary, of a vast organized piracy operation. the group has not only deceived european and international regulatory authorities, but also several hundred thousand consumers in europe and worldwide. this case has shown that we need to impose controls in real driving conditions, as i called for in my cars2020 report, which was voted by parliament a year ago. i call on the commission to take action in this direction in order to promote the reputation of its companies in europe and the world.
mr. president, since 2014, libya - a direct consequence of the western intervention in 2011, which many of you here have defended - has been a failed state, fractured into two opposing governments, two parliaments and two military alliances. in the west, the islamist-dominated tripoli camp relies on a government not recognized by the un and a military coalition backed by qatar and turkey. to the east, the tobruk camp of liberals, cyrenaica federalists and former gadhafi supporters is recognized by the un and supported by saudi arabia, egypt, the united arab emirates, the united states and the european union, and relies on the military coalition of general khalifa haftar against the islamist militias in benghazi. the islamist coalition cohabits with the jihadists of ansar al-sharia with those of al-qaeda in the islamic maghreb and with those of egypt, which now have a back-base in addition to sinai, not to mention the installation in 2014 of the islamic state. syrian islamic state cadres are training in cyrenaica, a province that now gives the islamic caliphate a strategic advantage as it now has a sea-side opening. today, in my view, there is only one solution to protect europe: a naval blockade of the libyan coast by our fleets to stop the departure of ships at the source. the boats must be boarded as soon as they leave, the migrants returned to the coast and the smugglers' boats sunk.
mr president, when i listen to my colleague chauprade, i have the impression of being st bonaventure listening to st thomas in a theological dispute and tearing up the very pages of the speech he was preparing to make, so admirably has the situation been described. i understand very well that mr preda does not want to debate with him, since it is mr preda's political friends who are responsible for the current situation. we must name them all: it was mr sarkozy, inspired by mr bernard-henri lévy, who, after having received mr gaddafi in a magnificent manner, had him pitch his tent at a distance from the elysée palace, had rolled out 100 metres of red carpet, after befriending him, stabbed him in the back at the first difficulty and had him participate in his assassination. so, in this extraordinarily difficult context, at least let the experience serve us. we in the west have destabilized iraq, we have destabilized libya and we are still preparing, at any rate, a number of us here are preparing to destabilize the syrian government. this is the policy of gribouille, this is the policy which paves the way for the extremists, for the islamists and for those whom you falsely claim to be fighting.
mr president, commissioner, first of all, after the political discussions between the libyan parties, which came to an end in skhirat, morocco, we must once again welcome the enormous work of mediation carried out by bernardino león. say yes or no. there is an urgent need for a government of national unity to finally get to work. the threat from daesh is spreading more than ever in libya. there are now 5,000 fighters of the islamic state in the country, including in the coastal city of sirte. the attacks on sadra and benghazi port are sadly a testimony to the dynamism of the terrorist organisation in libya. in view of this, i believe that the return of a state capable of controlling its borders and defending its territory is an absolute necessity. the high representative's statements in favour of the immediate allocation of eur 100 million to the future libyan government to assist it in its mission are to be welcomed. i think it is essential that we are ready when this new government comes into office.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, libya, which was liberated by nicolas sarkozy, is now plunging into chaos. why did france and england go to war with libya in the name of human rights? it is true that gaddafi is no longer here to testify, but it is clear that today the liberation of libya has caused islamization by the sharia, unprecedented unemployment, the departure of investors, the asphyxiation of tourism, the destabilization of the machrek, the division of the country, arms trafficking and the law of militias and above all an unprecedented wave of immigrants. yes, libya's weakness is now giving rise to disunited peoples, leading to uprooting. so i have only one warning to give to the european union, because all this has been done thanks to the european union, with the support of the european union. what i would like to say today is that in syria as in libya, the european union has an overwhelming share of responsibility and that today we must draw the conclusions very quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to the commission. the libyan tragedy is a mirror of the disastrous foreign policy of a european union allied with nato, subservient to the external interests of the united states, with its domestic minions, president sarkozy, at the head. the result is tribal chaos, a country torn between east and west. security chaos, that of a territory abandoned to the barbaric hordes of the islamic state and the smuggling networks. humanitarian chaos, with a tsunami of migration of about one and a half million illegal immigrants, some of them islamist terrorists. and finally, a chaos that today is coming to our country through your harmful immigration policies. the solution will be to help the various libyan factions to meet again and to deal with the issue of illegal immigrants on the spot. but that requires a policy that is not your policy, the worst policy. will it still take the intervention of russia and perhaps egypt to prevent the worst of what you are preparing for us?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, no act is more barbaric than the death penalty, regardless of the conditions under which it was carried out. it's a universal struggle, but it's a struggle that seems to have to be on the agenda more than ever. the number of abolitionist countries continues to increase, and this is to be welcomed. the united states, however, remains a stain on democracies, because executions are carried out there, including those of the mentally disabled. there are many sources of anxiety. countries that had decided to put a moratorium on executions have resumed executions, such as pakistan and indonesia. worse still, senegal, which had abolished the death penalty, is now trying to reinstate it, which would be a first and therefore a dramatic break. others, which are among the highest practitioners of the death penalty, are seeing an increase in executions, such as iran and saudi arabia. the fight against drugs, but also against terrorism, is used as a pretext for the proliferation of executions after summary trials, as we have seen in egypt. countries that were thought to be immune from this have reintroduced the death penalty in this area, as tunisia has just done, although a moratorium has existed since 1991. our countries are not immune to a backward step, as viktor orbán's statements in may showed. too many people are riding on unhealthy populism. so yes, more than ever we must persuade, support popular education programmes in this area, ensure that european programmes are never used to finance directly or indirectly these barbaric practices. now more than ever, we must remain vigilant.
mr president, almost unanimously, the members of this house condemn the death penalty. the death penalty is inhuman, degrading, barbaric, we can never say it enough. moreover, contrary to popular belief, it is not a deterrent. let us look at the phenomenon in the united states, as has been pointed out by several of my colleagues. yet the list of countries that still kill is long. in europe we must be vigilant against populists who see the death penalty as the solution to all the ills of society. elsewhere, we all remember the face of ali alnimr, the 21-year-old saudi who was arrested in qatif for taking part in a demonstration for democracy. i would not like to describe the horror of punishment here - it is indescribable - but, on the contrary, to salute the hope of ali, of this youth, of this beautiful and strong youth who manifests and mobilizes for the advent of a more just society. in conclusion, since the council representative is here, i have two questions to put to him. is the council prepared to fight for ali, for democracy, for life, against barbarism? is the council prepared to make respect for human rights, the right to life, rather than the sale of arms, the rule for international negotiations?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this text has the merit of promoting the settlement of crossborder disputes of less than eur 5 000 in civil and commercial matters, but it will probably fail in the same way as its predecessor, which pursued the same objective for disputes of less than eur 2 000. the european union is unable to organise local justice, because in the minds of europeans justice is a national matter. furthermore, justice is not always given the respect it deserves. i want to see this in its current plan to double the number of judges in the court of justice, which it is trying to enforce in violation of article 257 of the treaty and article 63 of our rules of procedure and in defiance of our parliamentary procedure. the truth it seeks to conceal is that this duplication is not necessary, as judges of the court have themselves admitted. shame on the european union, which is about to distribute useless and highly paid seats, without regard for the millions of europeans who are suffering, victims of its ultra-liberal austerity policy!
madam president, commissioner, with only a few weeks to go until the cop 21 in paris, the limitation of our greenhouse gas emissions and the defence of air quality are at the heart of our concerns. again, anything we can do to combat climate change and improve the air we breathe must be done. in europe, a study shows that 348,000 deaths a year are due to poor air quality. the situation is clear: our health is clearly endangered by polluted air in europe. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report today. we have succeeded in limiting the emissions of pollutants such as nitrogen dioxide, which are very harmful to health and the environment. the addition by the european parliament of the carbon monoxide emission inventory will also provide the information needed to compel the commission to legislate as soon as possible. madam president, as rapporteur for cop 21 on our parliament, i welcome the fact that this report is a good sign for effectively combating this polluted air.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome this proposal, of course, but there is one point which i do not understand at all. it is the exclusion of the outermost regions from the benefits of this very good directive. no doubt the energy lobby has been through here. but as an elected representative of the outermost regions, i reject this exclusion which is designed to deprive the overseas countries of the benefits of air quality and of these very positive measures for health. does this mean that these measures apply only to continents? i don't think he did. i think that it would have been possible to proceed differently, to allow time, taking into account the particular characteristics of these regions. but, you see, article 349 is now being misused for regressive purposes. that's what i don't accept. i therefore invite my colleagues to vote tomorrow in favour of the separate amendments i have proposed.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the epp group would like first of all to express its condolences to the families of the 22 victims of the kunduz hospital and to condemn these bombings, which must be brought to light and the appropriate sanctions imposed. this mistake, now acknowledged by the us command after days of unbearable hesitation and praise, is all the more tragic because it destroyed the only functioning medical facility in the kunduz region, despite the unambiguous communications of msf staff on the coordinates and the nature of their activities. but behind this tragic event, there is a very worrying strategic reality in afghanistan. the taliban offensives on kunduz, faryab province near turkmenistan and three other provinces in northern afghanistan reveal a transition that is even more difficult than it was when western forces withdrew. the fact that these attacks are taking place in a region, northern afghanistan, that has been relatively untouched by insurgent movements until now, attests to the fact that the taliban threat remains strong, far beyond its traditional strongholds. it also shows that the afghan security forces, despite heavy, massive and extremely expensive training programmes, still have capabilities that are too random to deal with this type of offensive alone. without american air support, kunduz and other areas of northern afghanistan would probably still be occupied by the taliban today. it is also important to note that other insurgent groups are gaining strength alongside the taliban. the islamic state is now present in afghanistan and is recruiting heavily from jihadist backgrounds, particularly those from central asia. the recent consolidation of the islamic movement in uzbekistan and the movements on both sides of the afghan-pakistani border, where several thousand central asian jihadists have been spotted, should alert us to the fragility of the process under way. it also demonstrates the need for greater international involvement. it is not a question of considering massive military deployments which have shown their limits, but of seeking greater cooperation with neighbouring countries in particular, including china and russia, whose current contagion cannot be ignored. our attention is rightly focused on other, closer crises that directly affect our security, but we retain a special responsibility in afghanistan, where many of the problems we face today have historical roots and where there has been an indisputable legal and legitimate basis, under the auspices of the un, for us to intervene since 2001.
mr president, the situation in syria has never been so inextricable and so dangerous, with fighting that will continue, probably even intensify, with more and more dead and more wounded, with each international power and each regional power playing its own game, which is there on its own behalf on the ground, to defend its own interests always in contradiction with those of the others. obviously, the russian intervention is going to be a game changer. it will probably see the relations evolve and change on the ground, but it will also cause a stronger mobilization - i am thinking in particular of saudi arabia - to support the opponents and, consequently, there too, more deaths and more war. the prospect of a unified syria is also becoming increasingly remote. in the face of this situation, what can we do? what are we supposed to do? europe is sorely lacking, whereas it is particularly concerned, because of all the refugees who want to join us. it is high time we made our voices heard. we will have to work to find a solution to the conflict, working with all the stakeholders in three directions. firstly, we must urgently find an agreement between the major powers, in particular the united states and russia, to fight effectively against daesh. secondly, we must work towards a political transition in syria that guarantees the existence of minorities and the establishment of a confederal regime. thirdly, and finally, if we are to find a lasting solution to the conflict, we must allow the various countries involved to safeguard their vital interests in the solution to the conflict. it is high time europe made its voice heard.
mr president, in the last two weeks two new countries have intervened militarily in the chaos in syria for obviously different reasons, but all justified by the fight against terrorism. france and russia are conducting air strikes, which unfortunately will not bring a solution to the syrian conflict. no one should deny the very serious threat posed by the islamist terrorist groups in syria, the foremost of which is, of course, the disastrous islamic state, but we must also be aware that no military action will be able to find a way out unless it is integrated into a much more comprehensive diplomatic and political framework that goes far beyond the syrian framework or the framework of the fight against terrorism. you mustn't make a mistake. we are facing in syria only one phenomenon among many of the total recomposition of the middle east with fault lines that cross, of course, syria, but also iraq, and also yemen. in the face of this considerable challenge, the diplomatic mobilisation must include all regional actors. the european union, at its modest level, we must be aware of this, and above all it must try to help bring together countries with divergent interests and motives that are deadly for the region. everyone knows that the background of this syrian conflict is the tectonic rivalry, between the shiites and the sunnis, between iran and saudi arabia. it is to this rapprochement that we must work, modestly but with great determination, and there is no other way out of a conflict which will last for years. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer to bill etheridge. it is natural that european governments want to deal with the immediacy of the impact of the syrian crisis, that is to say two things: terrorism and refugees. it is only natural that we should want to react to these two elements that directly affect us. but you will not dry up the flow of refugees or the terrorism by just one-off military actions. if you do not have diplomatic action to work on the recomposition of this middle east, with iran and saudi arabia, you will not dry up these two tragic phenomena.
mr president, in syria, it would be a laughing matter to see our western position sink into ridicule if a drama were not unfolding before our eyes and if france were not also becoming ridiculous. there's the elected government of bashar al-assad, leading a conscripted syrian army against various foreign and terrorist groups: the islamic state, the nusra front, the local branch of al qaeda, and the so-called free syrian army, but supported by foreign countries. on one side a legitimate army, a nation, on the other a conglomerate of warlords of at least 84 nationalities armed by the gulf states and the west, with a new category, the soft islamists, until they become hard, when they turn against us because they escape us, armed and seasoned by us. you criticize russia's resolute policy, but this policy finally dares to resolve the syrian dilemma, to emerge from barbarism by restoring the legitimate state to rebuild. russia is once again saving the values of the west, which we have betrayed. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question is "blue cardboard". sir, do you approve of the abuses being carried out by the bashar al-assad regime?
answer is "blue cardboard". first of all, there is propaganda, and you know that very well. we started by saying, even before the russians bombed, that they had bombed positions to support bashar el-assad. of course, all this is propaganda, but, on the other hand, it is certain that we are facing a regime which is not democratic. we have to choose between, on the one hand, al qaeda and the islamic state or, on the other hand, a legitimate state. the choice must be made for the legitimate state.
mr president, the present disastrous situation in syria is the direct consequence of the insane policy pursued by brussels and most of the western chancelleries over the past five years. open or more covert support for armed terrorist groups, closure of our embassies in damascus, breaking of all security cooperation with the syrian services, refusal to support the syrian authorities in their fight against terrorism, bombing alongside the united states in violation of international law, the list of errors is too long to leave any legitimacy to the desire to influence the current situation. russia has chosen, at the request of the legitimate syrian authorities and in compliance with international law, to intervene vigorously against terrorism in syria. we should be glad that the russians are finally doing the job that we didn't want to do or couldn't do. it was time, and the joyful demonstrations of syrians in damascus celebrating the arrival of russian troops are the best illustration of the carelessness of your policy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i would like to say that we must also listen to the testimony of the syrian people. it is tired of this war, of these indiscriminate bombings by terrorist groups. the syrians want peace and they want their future to end - and i think that's the most important thing - to be decided in washington or riyadh. believe me - but you probably know, with a little intellectual honesty - that until now, the syrian people have felt very alone and very abandoned by everyone. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". my dear colleague, i will not offend you by thinking that you have not understood what i have said. you know very well that i'm not. i am simply saying that the sovereignty of the people must be respected, and that this has of course been said on several occasions, that we cannot endorse everything that is happening in the syrian regime, but that we are still faced with a fundamental problem. we have to choose and fight against this islamic state. everybody knows it, everybody says it. so i'm just saying that we don't always have to have this interference with other states. that's what i'm saying.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a genuine market for fools. yesterday the european union signed an agreement with ankara to mobilise european funds for the reception and maintenance of refugees in turkey. this migration air call will be amplified with the expected arrival of 20 million migrants from syria, the middle east or africa. turkey will be the gateway. in return, the union will speed up visa liberalization with turkey. turkish citizens will be able to travel to europe without a visa. through this process, the european union opens its borders and allows turkey to become an implicit member of the european union. on behalf of the enf group, we denounce this disguised membership. we refuse turkey entry into europe. no, no, no, turkey is not european! (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. yes, i will respond to these childish and stupid attacks. i will simply say that i am a european but i am against this european union. i denounce today turkey, your ally, which supports the islamist movement throughout this widespread cancer in the middle east and which occupies a european country, namely cyprus. i denounce the repression of journalists and turkish dissidents in gezi park, turkey. i am not going to be lectured because today turkey has no right to a city here in europe!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the calendar of sessions for 2017. the main issue in the proposal was whether or not to keep strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. the idea of making brussels the sole seat of the european parliament raises several problems. firstly, why should it be in brussels rather than in strasbourg? it is equally possible to argue that parliament should meet only in strasbourg, where lobbyists are less present. the choice of brussels as the sole seat would help to centralize the european union more. the concentration of power will necessarily be to the detriment of the member states. the additional cost is often greatly exaggerated. since members are constantly on the move (returning to their constituencies, various missions, etc.), the expected benefits would ultimately be quite small. in addition, the abandonment of strasbourg would result in a significant loss of income for the inhabitants of strasbourg and for many businesses, not to mention the significant costs of moving and settling in brussels. the proposed timetable maintains the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ as proposed by the conference of group chairs, i voted in favour of the proposed calendar of parliament's sessions.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this calendar which, although giving greater importance to the 'mini-sessions' in brussels, does not call into question the strasbourg seat, which is being contested by the most zealous eurocrats.
in writing. this calendar sets out the dates of the 2017 parliamentary sessions adopted by the conference of presidents. it maintains the division between plenary sessions in strasbourg (which ensures that the seat is maintained) and mini-sessions in brussels. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this calendar maintains the division between plenary sessions and mini-sessions. it therefore ensures that the siege of strasbourg is maintained. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because the calendar in question maintains the division between the plenary and the 'mini-session'. it thus ensures that the european parliament's seat in strasbourg is maintained.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this decision is to adopt the calendar of the european parliament's work and of its plenary sessions for the year 2017. i note that 12 plenary sessions are scheduled to take place in strasbourg, as well as five 'mini-sessions' in brussels. in a context of reduced european legislative activity, in accordance with the pledges of the epp and jean-claude juncker's campaign for better legislation, the merits of these mini-sessions should be questioned and such a practice should not end up calling into question the strasbourg plenary sessions, provided for in the treaties. nevertheless, considering that this proposal for a timetable, like last year, respects the letter of the treaties in this respect, i voted in favour of this timetable but i will remain attentive and vigilant on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the calendar of sessions for 2017. the proposal was to maintain strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. the idea of making brussels the sole seat of the european parliament raises several problems. firstly, why should the seat be in brussels rather than in strasbourg? it is equally possible to argue that parliament should sit only in strasbourg, where lobby groups are less present. the choice of brussels as the sole seat would help to centralize the european union more. the concentration of power will necessarily be to the detriment of the member states. the additional cost is often greatly exaggerated. since members are constantly on the move (returning to their constituencies, various missions, etc.), the expected benefits would ultimately be quite small. in addition, the abandonment of strasbourg would result in a significant loss of income for the inhabitants of strasbourg and for many businesses, not to mention the significant costs of moving and settling in brussels. the proposed timetable maintains the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the calendar of the european parliament's plenary sessions for 2017. this timetable is in line with the requirements of the european treaties in that the 12 parliamentary sessions in strasbourg are maintained. this calendar was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ in its judgment of 13 december 2012, the court set aside the vote of 9 march 2011 by this parliament on the calendar of the 2012 and 2013 partsessions in a case brought before the court by the french republic and the grand duchy of luxembourg. the court of justice has ruled that the '12 ordinary partsession' must be of equal duration. the court of justice has recalled that only the member states have the legal competence to change the seat of the institutions. the president was therefore right to find the ecr group's amendment to destabilise strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament inadmissible.
in writing. ‒ one of the tasks of parliament is to determine the timetable for its sessions. exceptionally, the proposed calendar for 2017 respects important national commemorations. it does not propose sessions on 8 may, the day of the capitulation of the nazi armies, nor on 14 july, the revolutionary beginning of the modern era, nor on 11 november, the day of the defeat of german imperialism. i am voting for and strongly encourage this new attitude of respect for history.
in writing. ‒ the proposal was about keeping strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. the idea of making brussels the sole seat of the european parliament raises several problems. firstly, why should the seat be in brussels rather than in strasbourg? it is equally possible to argue that parliament should sit only in strasbourg, where lobby groups are less present. the choice of brussels as the sole seat would help to centralize the european union more. the concentration of power will necessarily be to the detriment of the member states. the additional cost is often greatly exaggerated. since members are constantly on the move (returning to their constituencies, various missions, etc.), the expected benefits would ultimately be quite small. in addition, the abandonment of strasbourg would result in a significant loss of income for the inhabitants of strasbourg and for many businesses, not to mention the significant costs of moving and settling in brussels. the proposed timetable maintains the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg.i voted in favour.
in writing. this calendar maintains the division between plenary and mini-sessions and thus the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the european parliament's work calendar for 2017. it will be composed of 12 plenary sessions in strasbourg and five in brussels. this calendar confirms the predominant role of the strasbourg seat, which is constantly defended by the french epp delegation, of which i am a member. outside plenary sessions, meps work in committees in brussels. these committees draw up, amend and adopt legislative proposals and own-initiative reports. meps examine the proposals of the commission and the council and draw up reports which are put to the vote in plenary. weeks dedicated to parliamentary activities in constituencies are also included in the calendar. these so-called 'green' weeks allow members to go out into the field and listen to their fellow citizens, as i do regularly in the greater east constituency.
in writing. ‒ this calendar maintains the division between plenary and mini-sessions and thus the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the new calendar of partsessions for the financial year 2017. this calendar is a continuation of the previous calendars and takes account of the requirements of the work of members.
in writing. ‒ the calendar maintains the division between plenary and mini-sessions, thus ensuring the maintenance of the strasbourg parliament. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which seeks to establish an agreement between the european union and the republic of tunisia on economic and financial assistance to tunisia and its participation in the union programme. the more intensive management of migration from tunisia should be the top priority of the union, which, it should be remembered, is responsible, together with the united states, for the coming to power of the islamists through support for groups claiming to be democratic. for such economic agreements to be possible between the eu and tunisia, conditions are necessary such as the intensive fight against migration flows or, towards france, the respect of tunisian commitments to develop french language learning.
in writing. ‒ this protocol asks the council to approve a framework agreement between the european union and tunisia. this document provides for the definition of financial and technical rules which would give tunisia the possibility of participating in eu programmes. through this agreement, tunisia would be able to benefit from technical and financial assistance from the union. it is true that the country is currently experiencing political and economic difficulties. but the european union is showing hypocrisy. it is partly responsible for this situation, through its interference with the united states. moreover, instead of worrying about the tunisian economy, the eu would do better to sweep up its doorstep and help its neighbours who share a common history and civilization. serbia for example. and if the european union is absolutely keen to have ties with tunisia, it would be wiser if it worked with the tunisian authorities on security and immigration issues. any partnership between this country and the member states should thus be conditional on performance obligations in this area. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, this decision is one of the many measures to promote reform, modernisation and democratic transition in tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the eu should focus on security and migration issues as a priority in its relations with tunisia. that is why i did not support this report, which suffers from a biased perspective and a wrong hierarchy of problems.
in writing. this protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes is intended to allow for the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to partner countries, in particular those of the maghreb. we want to support the country by reforming it, modernising it and ensuring its transition. before committing to this financial and technical partnership, the eu should look at the migration and security situation with tunisia. moreover, in this connection, the eu is introducing a form of interference in tunisian democracy as if past experience had not shown the limits of eu or us action since a regime was replaced by the arrival of islamists to power. that is why i voted against this protocol.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur wishes to strengthen economic and political links between the european union, its member states and tunisia in order to support the country's fragile democratic transition. the protocol aims to define the financial and technical rules allowing tunisia to participate in certain union programmes. the horizontal framework sets out the principles of economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows tunisia to benefit from technical assistance from the european union. the european union, its member states and their allies, in particular the united states, bear a very heavy responsibility for the destabilization of tunisia, the fall of ben ali and the arrival of the islamists in government. we believe that in the economic field the union must first of all strengthen its links with peripheral countries such as serbia. in return for these economic agreements, the european institutions should demand that tunisia control the migration flows that pass through its territory. finally, these agreements should be conditional on the achievement of clear results in the fight against terrorism. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that the eu should focus on security and migration as a priority in its relations with tunisia and not on 'the economy and investment, in order to support the country's fragile democratic transition'. this transition, orchestrated by the eu and the us, has also led to the coming to power of islamists and has resulted in a significant loss of internal stability.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the conclusion by the council of the protocol containing a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes. under the european neighbourhood policy, the gradual opening of certain programmes and agencies of the european union to partner countries covered by that policy is one of the many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the countries neighbouring the european union. the protocol provides for financial assistance to tunisia. while the arab spring expressed the people's call for more freedoms and democracy, tunisia is now facing the influence of radical islamist movements, which are fuelling instability in the country and slowing down the realisation of its strong economic potential. i believe that the european union should support tunisia in its democratic transition, as tunisia is an important historical and geopolitical partner. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. our relations with the neighbouring mediterranean countries must be geared to ever greater cooperation. i therefore supported this text on tunisia's participation in european union programmes. i consider that our technical, financial and economic assistance to tunisia is a concrete and positive step towards strengthening the exemplary cooperation that exists with that country.
in writing. ‒ the follow-up report on the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy in tunisia underlines that the country has made real progress in research and innovation. this progress has been made possible by structural reforms and agreements with internationally recognised research organisations or institutions. tunisia is now the most advanced country in our mediterranean neighbourhood. it is right that it will now participate in eu programmes such as the european research programme horizon 2020. this will strengthen the union's ties with tunisia and help to develop its economy.
in writing. ‒ this new draft council decision concerns the assistance that the european union intends to grant to tunisia, whereas the union has been one of the main, if not the only, actors in the destabilisation of the country. what the european union considers to be an opportune period for the country's recovery is in reality only an unstable situation, due solely to the interventionism of the union. as poverty in the union grows and supranational policies prove to be a failure, the union prefers to spend taxpayers' money on obscure aid programmes whose effects on the ground are difficult to assess. it would be more sensible for the european union to take an interest in the migration crisis, the rise of islamism and the security problems it creates. that is why this draft decision seems to me to be disconnected from the current problems of the french people and the peoples of europe in general. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it does not attach importance to the fight against terrorism and migration flows.
in writing. ‒ this protocol asks the council to approve an agreement between the european union and tunisia, a framework agreement. this document provides for the definition of financial and technical rules which would give tunisia the possibility of participating in eu programmes. through this agreement, tunisia would be able to benefit from technical and financial assistance from the union. it is true that tunisia is facing political and economic difficulties today. but the european union is showing hypocrisy. the european parliament, together with the united states, is partly responsible for this situation by its interference. moreover, instead of worrying about the tunisian economy, the eu would do better to sweep up its doorstep and help its neighbours who share a common history and civilization. serbia for example. if the european union is serious about having ties with tunisia, let it start by working on security and immigration issues. any partnership between this country and the member states should be conditional on performance obligations in this area. for these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement and the principles for tunisia's participation in european union programmes. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in tunisia. the recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recommends deepening relations between tunisia and the european union because tunisia is the only country of the arab spring to make a genuine democratic transition. it is therefore necessary to support it and to promote its access to european programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an agreement between the european union and tunisia on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes. tunisia is the birthplace of the arab spring and is fighting to preserve the social and political gains of this popular movement. the terrorist attacks and other attempts to destabilise the state are a reminder of the fragility of the democratic transition in this country. it is therefore necessary to support it by initiating and supporting investment projects that will boost the tunisian economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it provides, without sufficient counterparts, eu economic support to tunisia. it should have made it conditional on the country's achieving more tangible results in the fight against the migratory flows passing through its territory.
in writing. - i voted against this protocol. the text includes provisions on tunisia's participation in european programmes, which will allow tunisia to benefit from technical and financial assistance from the eu. this text is a thinly veiled attempt to bring tunisia and the eu closer together and to support its 'democratization', an attempt that has been totally unsuccessful if we consider that the support provided by the eu and the us has resulted in the coming to power of the islamists and a strong loss of internal stability. any discussion with tunisia should be conditional on the results or efforts of tunisia in the fight against illegal immigrants, against terrorism and in the promotion of democracy.
in writing. ‒ the panzeri report called on the european parliament to give its opinion on the project to integrate tunisia into certain european union programmes. i am convinced that there is a kind of imperative for the european union that tunisia, at the origin of the arab spring, should succeed in its democratic transition, despite the economic and security challenges it faces. it is in the interests of both the region and the european union that the tunisian experience should bear fruit. in the face of rampant unemployment and the deterioration of trade with its european trading partners, it is essential that the european union help tunisia to get back on a proper economic and social development path. at a time when more than 40% of tunisian young people are unemployed, i welcome the eu's willingness to include tunisia in some of its programmes, particularly in the fields of higher education, general education, training and youth. in line with my commitment to an ambitious and protective free trade agreement with tunisia, i voted for the panzeri report.
in writing. ‒ this is to allow tunisia, as a member of the european neighbourhood policy and at its request, to participate in eu cultural, social or economic programmes. in this case, tunisia is particularly interested in joining the research and development programme, horizon 2020. it emphasizes competitiveness as the objective and value of research, to the detriment of the humanities and laboratories for "non-profit" research. in fact, i am abstaining in order not to hinder potential future cultural, social and research collaborations that can help support the country's fragile democratic transition in the wake of the arab spring. i hope that this agreement will pave the way for more cooperation in other areas, such as education and the erasmus programme. i would point out, however, that at the moment the financial contribution requested from tunisia to join these programmes is too dissuasive, whereas ukraine has enjoyed substantial discounts. it is the double standard of the union's foreign policy.
in writing. ‒ this protocol asks the council to approve an agreement between the european union and tunisia, a framework agreement. this document provides for the definition of financial and technical rules which would give tunisia the possibility of participating in eu programmes. through this agreement, tunisia would be able to benefit from technical and financial assistance from the union. it is true that tunisia is facing political and economic difficulties today. but the european union is showing hypocrisy. the european parliament, together with the united states, is partly responsible for this situation by its interference. moreover, instead of worrying about the tunisian economy, the eu would do better to sweep up its doorstep and help its neighbours who share a common history and civilization. serbia for example. if the european union is serious about having ties with tunisia, it must start by working on security and immigration issues. any partnership between this country and the member states should be conditional on performance obligations in this area. for these reasons, the member voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this protocol is to define the financial and technical rules allowing tunisia to participate in certain eu programmes. it lays down the principles of economic, financial and technical cooperation and authorises tunisia to receive assistance from the european union. the pressure exerted on the ben ali regime by the eu and the us in favour of democratisation has in fact resulted in the coming to power of islamists and in internal instability. today, the eu must work with tunisia as a priority in the fight against terrorism and illegal immigration. any progress in the eu-tunisia economic partnership should be conditional on clear results in the fight against illegal migration flows through tunisian territory. on the economic front, the eu's priority should remain its partnership with peripheral european countries, such as serbia. this protocol cannot therefore be supported as it stands.
in writing. the euro-mediterranean memorandum of understanding on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in european union programmes provides for the gradual opening-up of certain eu programmes and agencies to partner countries, in particular those of the maghreb, with a view to promoting 'reform, modernisation and transition' and the financial and technical arrangements for such opening-up. the eu and its member states should focus primarily on security and migration issues in their relations with tunisia before considering such an economic and financial partnership. the 'democratic transition' that this partnership is supposed to promote - at the repeated risk of political interference in the affairs of another state - has so far been a blatant failure, supported from beginning to end by the eu and the us, and which has led to the coming to power of the islamists of ennahda and to a significant setback in the rights, freedoms and development of the country. i have therefore voted against this memorandum of understanding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the participation of tunisia in eu programmes. in recent years, the health of the tunisian economy has deteriorated sharply, both domestically and internationally, particularly in terms of trade with europe, which remains the country's main trading partner. the fragile democratic transition of this country depends to a large extent on its economic development. it is threatened by the regular attacks by terrorist groups. it is therefore essential to provide better support and assistance to tunisia in considering its participation in union programmes within the broader framework of the euro-mediterranean agreement.
in writing. ‒ the euro-mediterranean memorandum of understanding on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in european union programmes aims at the gradual opening up of certain eu programmes and agencies to partner countries, in particular those in the maghreb, with a view to promoting 'reform, modernisation and transition' and the financial and technical modalities of such opening up. the eu and its member states should focus primarily on security and migration issues in their relations with tunisia before considering such an economic and financial partnership. the 'democratic transition' that this partnership is supposed to promote - at the repeated risk of political interference in the affairs of another state - has so far been a blatant failure, supported from beginning to end by the eu and the us, and which has led to the coming to power of the islamists of ennahda and to a significant setback in the rights and freedoms and development of the country. i have therefore voted against this memorandum of understanding.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is a country whose transition to democracy after the arab spring can be considered almost exemplary. it's a good example of how to build a democratic society after a long period of authoritarian rule. in addition, tunisia is a close neighbour, which in today's difficult situation is another reason why we should not hesitate to involve this country in union programmes.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the european neighbourhood policy and eu-mediterranean relations, it is important to promote trade between tunisia and the union. in this context, i have spoken in favour of the recommendation on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and tunisia. this agreement remains of major importance as it determines the general principles for tunisia's participation in union programmes. the democratic transition currently under way in this country, guarantor of the achievements of the arab spring, which tunisia spearheaded, must be based on sustainable economic and social development. the interests of tunisia, the union and the region as a whole are at stake. i hope that tunisia's access to european programmes and the opportunities they offer in terms of economic, investment, training and youth will help to achieve this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which lays down the technical financial rules allowing tunisia to participate in certain eu programmes. the gradual opening-up of certain eu agencies and programmes to partner countries is an important provision of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) to promote reform and modernisation in the eu's neighbouring countries. in december 2013, tunisia indicated its willingness to participate in the wide range of programmes open to enp partner countries. as tunisia continues its democratic transition and the national dialogue quartet has just received the nobel peace prize, the european union must support and accompany tunisia more than ever. the opening up of european programmes to enp countries represents an opportunity to enhance economic cooperation and technical and financial assistance with the european union.
in writing. ‒ the eu should focus on security and migration as a priority in its relations with tunisia and not on 'economy and investment, in order to support the country's fragile democratic transition'. this transition orchestrated by the european union and the united states has also led to the arrival of islamists in power and has resulted in internal destabilization. so i opposed the text.
in writing. ‒ tunisia is the country where the arab revolutions were born. despite the difficulties in implementing its constitution and the terrorist attacks in the bardo and sousse, it is pursuing its democratic transition, in particular through the mobilisation of civil society and its population more broadly. supporting tunisia in this process is essential. the country remains a symbol for north africa, the middle east and beyond, as the nobel peace prize for the quartet has just underlined. promoting tunisia's participation in eu programmes, as is already the case for other countries in the mediterranean neighbourhood, can be a suitable tool, particularly as regards cultural and social partnerships (higher education, research, training, etc.). this does not prevent the need for extreme vigilance at the time when discussions begin around the so-called free and in-depth free trade agreement (aleca) on the establishment of a balanced partnership preventing the pursuit of unbridled economic liberalism which will only worsen the economic and social situation of this country and turn its back on the legitimate but still unheeded demands of the tunisian population. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which concerns only participation in european programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which makes it easier and faster to resolve crossborder disputes. the proposal will make it possible to democratize access to justice and reduce the costs of proceedings for consumers and smes. consumer and sme protection must be a priority for the member states, helping them to cope with costs and often very complex legal procedures. the report is therefore moving in the right direction, although we regret that the definition of crossborder litigation in the text is too broad.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to simplify and speed up the settlement of small claims in crossborder cases. while the objective is laudable, namely to help consumers and smes to assert their claims, i nevertheless believe that it is not for the european union to legislate in the field of judicial procedures. it must remain the responsibility of the states, which can cooperate if necessary. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to simplify and speed up the procedures for the settlement of crossborder disputes in civil and commercial matters and to reduce their costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which will allow our citizens to settle their crossborder disputes under €5,000, although the definition of such disputes seems to me a bit too broad.
in writing. this report on regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure aims to simplify, speed up and reduce the costs of small claims settlement in cross-border cases in order to more specifically support consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in bringing their claims, thus ensuring their access to justice. unfortunately, this procedure is not widely known and could of course continue even outside the eu. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted for a european small claims procedure and a european injunction procedure which is designed to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises to pursue their claims in cross-border cases (disputes under €5000) and ensuring their access to justice.
in writing. ‒ since july 2007, the european small claims procedure has simplified and accelerated the settlement of legal disputes. costs were reduced by 40% and the average length of the procedure was reduced from 2 years to 5 months. the commission nevertheless found that these results were still insufficient. 45% of companies involved in litigation do not initiate proceedings because of the cost involved. the report therefore proposes to set the ceiling for small claims at eur 10 000, compared with eur 2 000 today. it also recommends better use of electronic means and videoconferencing to reduce travel costs. the legal fees will be capped at 10% of the sums involved and the parties involved will be able to pay them through an online payment method. finally, 86% of citizens are not aware of this procedure. therefore, the communication on the website portal should be improved. the proposal will speed up procedures and reduce costs for businesses and citizens involved in litigation. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this regulation establishes a procedure to simplify, speed up and reduce the costs of settling small claims in cross-border cases. it was specifically designed to help consumers and smes to pursue their claims, thereby ensuring their access to justice. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to simplify and speed up the settlement of small crossborder disputes and to reduce the costs of doing so. this procedure has been specifically designed to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to enforce their rights, thereby ensuring their access to justice. up to now, it has reduced the cost of proceedings by 40% and their duration by a maximum of 2 years and an average of 5 months. however, as it is still too little used in some member states, the report provides for a ceiling of eur 5 000 for procedural costs. it also increases the possibilities for using remote means of communication. i voted in favour of this report, which i believe contributes to creating a more favourable economic environment for consumers and businesses within the internal market.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. this procedure was designed primarily to help european consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises to assert their rights in the context of the settlement of small disputes. the report adopted extends the application of the procedure to disputes up to eur 5 000, instead of eur 2 000 previously.
in writing. ‒ since 1 january 2009, any consumer in dispute with a trader from another eu country can use the european small claims procedure if the dispute is less than eur 2 000. since its introduction, the procedure has reduced the costs of litigation for small crossborder claims by 40% and the duration of proceedings from 2 years to 5 months. the extension of the amount of the dispute to eur 5 000 and the improvement of the distance remedy are designed to better protect european consumers and small smes by facilitating their access to justice.
in writing. access to justice is a democratic issue. this is particularly true in crossborder disputes where litigants face many difficulties. in 2009, a european procedure for settling small border disputes was introduced. despite the many benefits it brings in terms of reduced costs and time for dispute settlement, the procedure remains unrecognised and underused. that is why i voted in favour of the report by my polish socialist colleague, lidia geringer of oedenger, which makes this procedure more accessible and more transparent. among the proposed improvements are the extension of the scope of the procedure, the increased use of remote communication technology for hearings and the taking of evidence and, finally, the obligation for member states to ensure that the legal costs incurred are not disproportionate. i am particularly in favour of these advances in that they bring european citizens closer to justice and strengthen the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to simplify the current small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure in crossborder proceedings. this simplification concerns the application of the procedure to disputes up to eur 5 000, instead of eur 2 000 previously, and strengthens the procedural obligations. this procedure is largely unknown to smes and consumers. however, i see no shortage of advantages in using it: procedures are on average five times faster than conventional procedures, i.e. less than six months, and result in 40% less costs. a reflection on how to better publicise this procedure would be worthwhile.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague lidia geringer de oedenberg on the european small claims procedure in the case of crossborder proceedings. the aim was to validate the agreement reached with the council and the commission on the subject, which notably extends the application of this procedure to disputes up to eur 5 000, compared with eur 2 000 previously, and strengthens procedural obligations. this mechanism is very useful and fast for smes and consumers, but it is still unknown and therefore not used to its full potential. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it will make it easier to settle small crossborder disputes, reducing costs and speeding up civil proceedings at the same time.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the committee on legal affairs, i voted in favour of the revision of the regulation on a simplified european procedure for the settlement of small crossborder disputes, in order to facilitate the recovery of crossborder claims, the maximum threshold now being increased from eur 2 000 to eur 5 000. more european citizens and smes will be able to use this written judicial procedure in these small crossborder disputes, benefiting from both a simplification of the debt recovery process, a reduction in the legal costs involved of around 40% compared to the standard procedure, and a significant reduction in the duration of the procedure from two years to five years on average. it is therefore to enable our citizens and very small businesses to recover their small crossborder debts in a cheaper, simpler and faster way that i supported the adoption of this simplified procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on a european small claims procedure to simplify and speed up the settlement of small claims in cross-border cases and to reduce the costs. it was specifically designed to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to pursue their claims, thereby ensuring their access to justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it allows french and european smes and individuals to resolve, at a low cost, their crossborder disputes of less than eur 5 000 in civil and commercial matters. it remains to be hoped that this system will be actually applied, which implies loyal cooperation of the national courts concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, which provides for the establishment of a procedure for settling small claims in crossborder cases. this will simplify the procedure and reduce costs, and thus enable small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to assert their claims.
in writing. ‒ the european small claims procedure was set up in 2007. it aims to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to pursue their claims, thereby ensuring their access to justice in cross-border disputes. the commission proposes to raise the ceiling for small claims under the european small claims procedure from eur 2 000 to eur 10 000, which would cover 50% of claims from smes. the proposal also extends the scope of the regulation by including in the definition of 'cross-border dispute' disputes in which both parties are domiciled in the same member state but which contain another cross-border element, such as the place of performance of the contract or the place where the damage occurred. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the regulation establishes a european small claims procedure with the aim of simplifying and speeding up the settlement of crossborder cases and reducing their costs. this procedure is supposed to help consumers as well as small and medium-sized enterprises. it can therefore be considered a rather positive text, and therefore it can be supported.
in writing. this report on the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure aims to amend regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure. the aim is to simplify, speed up and reduce the costs of settling small claims in cross-border cases in order to help consumers and smes to pursue their claims, ensuring their access to justice. this system would allow the french to settle their crossborder disputes for less than eur 5 000. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on crossborder small claims and payment orders. these procedures are particularly beneficial for smes and consumers as they are on average five times faster and allow a cost reduction of around 40% compared to conventional procedures. however, they remain poorly known and are not used to their full potential in all member states. the aim is to strengthen this mechanism by extending its application to disputes up to eur 5 000, compared with only eur 2 000 previously. a more systematic use of new information and communication technologies is also encouraged, in order to further reduce the time and costs involved in these procedures.
in writing. this report looks at the european small claims procedure, which has been in place since 2007. this procedure aims to ensure access to justice for any consumer and sme wishing to bring a claim in crossborder disputes. the reform of the procedure would make it possible to raise the ceiling for small claims giving access to it from eur 2 000 to eur 10 000, which would allow more smes to be covered by these guarantees. the reform also envisages revising the term crossborder litigation by including the possibility for two parties located in the same member state to access this procedure in the event that the dispute in question took place in another territory. i'm with you.
in writing. ‒ this report on the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure aims to amend regulation (ec) no 861/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure. the aim is to simplify and speed up the settlement of small claims in cross-border cases and to reduce the costs of this process in order to help consumers and smes to pursue their claims, ensuring their access to justice. this system would allow the french to settle their crossborder disputes for less than eur 5 000. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ cross-border economic exchanges are very important within the union, so it is essential to facilitate cross-border judicial proceedings. the european parliament adopted the report approving the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure. i voted in favour of this report because these procedures bring many benefits to smes and consumers. in particular, they are faster and cheaper than the traditional crossborder procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution which aims to amend the european procedures for settling small claims and for payment orders. behind this obscure title is a series of very concrete measures that make life easier for citizens and small businesses involved in crossborder litigation. in the past, citizens or smes could find themselves helpless or discouraged in the event of an attempt to recover a crossborder debt, not only because of the complexity of the procedure but also because of the duration and the presumed costs of the procedure, especially if the funds to be recovered from third parties located in the other eu country were lower than the presumed costs of the procedure... thanks to simplification, the standardised form and the judicial cooperation that has been in place for several years, it has become easier to recover these small cross-border claims in the eu, it is much faster, the procedure is much cheaper. the numbers are there and they show it. our proposal today is to improve the instrument even further. and if the council confirms the agreement, the rules will be further simplified, modernised and will be able to cover more cases, especially for higher amounts involved.
in writing. ‒ the regulation aims to simplify the lives of citizens. a simplified procedure for settling crossborder disputes of less than eur 2 000 has been implemented by the european commission since 2009. the odenberg report aims to extend the eligibility of the scheme to purchases up to eur 5 000 and to improve it, in particular through the use of electronic tools. it is a proposal which should make life easier for consumers. for example, a citizen of one member state who buys a product on the internet in another member state and receives it in bad condition may use this procedure if he does not reach an amicable agreement with the seller, in order to be compensated. i therefore supported this report because the development of such simplification procedures which protect consumers is a positive act towards our fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ the regulation of the european parliament and of the council of 11 july 2007 establishing a european small claims procedure aims to simplify, speed up and reduce the costs of settling small claims in cross-border cases. it was specifically designed to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to pursue their claims, thereby ensuring their access to justice. however, few people are aware of this procedure, which needs to be corrected. this system is destined to survive the european union. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ with a rated thermal output between 1 and 50 mw, medium combustion plants are used in a wide range of applications and fall between small plants covered by the ecodesign directive (2009/125/ec) and large combustion plants covered by the industrial emissions directive (2010/75/eu). the report aims to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust. of course, these regulatory changes are the responsibility of the member states and have a considerable impact on industry. for example, states are forced to apply a stricter emission limit in areas that do not comply with the european air quality standard. they must also keep a public record of the date of registration of combustion plants and register or license an existing plant at least one year before the date of compliance. this text is in line with these standards which are hostile to industry under the guise of a risky environmental and public health benefit. with my colleagues from the national front, we consider that this is contrary to national and european interests. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it sets limits for sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions from medium combustion plants, such as electricity generators or domestic or industrial heating systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gryzb report because it allows for a limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere. the scope has been extended by the addition of carbon monoxide, and stricter limits have been introduced in areas where air quality does not meet european standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on a draft directive to limit the emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere: this directive is likely to seriously harm our industries, which are already heavily penalized by unfair competition encouraged by the ultra-liberal eurocrats in brussels. here's another one of those good intentions that paves brussels hell...
in writing. ‒ this report on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere must fill a certain legislative gap concerning medium fuel installations used for example in the production of electricity, heating, heat production for industrial purposes... it must also contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides (nox), sulphur dioxide (so2) and dust. however, it is noted that these changes are the responsibility of the member states and are a burden on industry. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations. this text, with its binding requirements and its apparently hazardous environmental or health effects, is contrary to the general european and national interests and will cost industry. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to fill the legal vacuum surrounding the emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants. they are used for electricity generation, heating, heat generation or steam generation for industrial purposes and have a rated thermal input between 1 and 50 mw. in order to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide, the report requires member states to set a stricter emission limit. it also requires them to keep a register which the public can consult and in which the dates of registration of medium combustion plants are included. the commission often praises the merits of green growth, that is to say, an increase in production which would preserve the environment. while the objective is laudable, we regret that their policy is limited to a green taxation which will increase the unfair competition we are suffering from. let them first fight the unbridled globalisation that has caused a sharp rise in co2 emissions, before they impose unnecessary new regulations. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ we must do everything we can to improve air quality substantially. this requires the introduction of limits on certain pollutants in order to achieve the environmental objectives set. it is essential that these limits be ambitious and equally important that they correspond to the union's objectives of competitiveness and economic recovery. this requires that smes be given a certain period of time to adapt so as not to jeopardize the way in which their activities are carried on. this legislation regulates emissions of pollutants from medium combustion plants. i voted for this report which combines environmental protection with economic realism.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to fill a legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust. regulatory changes are the responsibility of the member states and are a burden on industry, as they require member states to apply a stricter emission limit in areas that do not comply with the european air quality standard, to establish strengthened provisions on the level of emissions achievable for new technologies, to register or to grant a permit to an existing installation at least one year before the date of compliance. the commission has introduced community standards, and the text is contrary to the national and general european interests by laying down provisions which are unfavourable to industry for the sake of environmental protection. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to introduce a permitted pollution limit value for medium-sized fuel installations in europe, feeding electricity generators, household networks and industries. while european law provides for such limits for small and large installations, medium-sized installations (between 1 and 50 megawatts) are currently outside the scope of european law. while revising the list of targeted pollutants and introducing new pollution limit values, the report also provides for a reduction in the administrative burden for these installations. following my work in the parliamentary committee, this report also introduces a list of exempted installations, in particular those used for research purposes or installed in the overseas territories, taking into account their specificities. i believe that this report strikes a balance between reducing emissions, protecting the health of european citizens and reducing the administrative burden on the companies concerned. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i supported the text on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants. pollutants such as sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides are not yet regulated at european level. it is therefore desirable to limit these pollutants through this directive. more generally, and in view of cop21, it is desirable that the european union should push member states to take more action against global warming.
in writing. ‒ by setting limits on the emission of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants, this directive will fill a legal vacuum. until then, 143 000 combustion plants of less than 1 megawatt (mw) were not covered by the ecodesign directive. the average combustion plant is used for a variety of purposes, such as electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling and the production of heat or steam for industrial purposes. they are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter (fine particulate matter) emissions. the adoption of this agreement is a step forward in the european union's strategy for improving air quality.
in writing. ‒ the gryzb report deals with the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere, and thus regulates emissions from medium-sized combustion plants (1 to 50 mw), which was not covered by the commission's initial proposal. that is why i voted for this resolution. the agreement will also allow member states to study the possibility of applying stricter limits to installations in areas which do not meet air quality standards. finally, carbon monoxide will have to be monitored by the commission, which will have to take account of the results of its study on this pollutant. i welcome this important step forward in the management of emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere.
in writing. ‒ our colleague grzyb's report proposed limiting the emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants. the establishment of any regulatory mechanisms in this sector is very complex and the european commission is in a hurry. this proposal continues the logic of the union's regulatory frenzy. by further disrupting industry and associated jobs, for a limited ecological benefit, this proposal reveals a clear imbalance in the consequences of this future regulation, to the detriment of economic activities. while environmental policy is at the heart of my commitment to the european parliament, i cannot accept a disproportionate burden for an already weakened french industry. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the alleged environmental benefits are still small compared to the standards that are binding on industry.
in writing. ‒ ahead of the world climate conference in paris in december 2015, the eu has proposed a directive to limit emissions of certain pollutants to help improve air quality. the european commission is, however, aware that the emission regulations for industrial installations must be progressive in order to take account of the technical and economic constraints imposed on operators and adapted to the size of these installations. this is the future of european industry, which is already in a sharp decline compared to our major international partners. in addition, certain installations will benefit from an exemption until 2030, such as district heating systems, installations linked to biomass, installations linked to isolated systems, in particular in overseas territories, and specific installations linked to a national natural gas transmission network. i think this approach is proportionate in that it balances the need to preserve our industries while encouraging them to promote less polluting techniques and the collective will to fight air pollution.
in writing. ‒ medium combustion plants are used in a wide range of applications and have a rated thermal output of between 1 and 50 mw. these plants therefore fall between small plants which are covered by the ecodesign directive (2009/125/ec) and large combustion plants which are covered by the industrial emissions directive (2010/75/eu). the aim of this text is therefore to fill a certain legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust. of course, these regulatory changes are the responsibility of the member states and have a considerable impact on industry. for example, states must apply a stricter emission limit in areas that do not comply with the european air quality standard; they must also keep a public record of the date of registration of combustion plants; the commission will also consider whether to register or permit an existing installation at least one year before the date of compliance. this text is in line with these standards which are hostile to industry, but which are disguised as a risky benefit to the environment and public health. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague andrzej grzyb on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere. the aim was to validate the agreement reached with the european commission and the council, which in particular adjusted the dates of application of the standards according to the size of the installations and certain specificities. in addition, for areas where air quality standards are not being met, member states are free to apply higher standards to installations to help bring them back to normal. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because air quality in europe is particularly affected by the use of small combustion plants. the text sets emission limits for certain pollutants from these installations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'limiting emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere'. medium combustion plants are used in a wide range of applications (including electricity generation, domestic or residential heating and cooling, and the production of heat or steam for industrial purposes). the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers in the event of accidents at work is a very good one.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it is aimed at reducing pollution by nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide, but it seems to be unfavourable to french and european industries for a very risky ecological benefit. it creates a new handicap for them in relation to industries in non-european countries. it's a symbol of the art of shooting yourself in the foot.
in writing. ‒ this is a proposal for a directive to limit emissions from a certain category of combustion plants in the 'medium' category (rated thermal output between 1 and 50 mw). these combustion plants are used for a wide range of uses including electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling and the production of heat or steam for industrial purposes. in the eu, 143 000 installations are affected. they are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions, and are currently not regulated at eu level (while small and large installations are). the proposal aims to limit the emission of pollutants from these installations. the commission's thresholds are still too high and the right wing is trying to exclude the peripheral regions of the eu from the scope of the directive, but it is in the direction of reducing emissions of pollutants, so i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ medium combustion plants are used in a wide range of applications and have a rated thermal output of between 1 and 50 mw. these plants therefore fall between small plants which are covered by the ecodesign directive (2009/125/ec) and large combustion plants which are covered by the industrial emissions directive (2010/75/eu). the aim of this text is therefore to fill a certain legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust. of course, these regulatory changes are the responsibility of the member states and have a considerable impact on industry. for example, states must apply a stricter emission limit in areas that do not comply with the european air quality standard; they must also keep a public record of the date of registration of combustion plants; the commission will also consider whether to register or permit an existing installation at least one year before the date of compliance. the text thus follows in the footsteps of these standards which are hostile to industry, but which are concealed by a risky environmental and public health benefit. this text is contrary to national and european interests. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to set a framework for pollutant emissions from medium combustion plants, those between small plants covered by directive 2009/125/ec (so-called 'eco-design') and large combustion plants, which are covered by directive 2010/75/eu (the 'industrial emissions' directive). the aim of this text is therefore to fill a certain legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust. regulatory changes are the responsibility of the member states and the burden on industry. despite an apparently laudable objective, it imposes standards outside the commission's purview for a very risky environmental and public health benefit. this text is contrary to the national interest and the general european interest and cannot be supported.
in writing. this report on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere aims to fill a legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of nitrogen oxide pollution. the average combustion plant is used in a wide range of applications. they are located between the small and the large thermal installations. the text imposes new constraints on member states, on the application of a stricter emission limit in areas which do not comply with european air quality standards, etc. most of these measures, devised by the most technocratish brains in the commission, will certainly have a negative impact on industry, while the environmental benefits seem to be very small... i therefore decided to vote against this absolutely harmful text which would pollute the legal environment of national industries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the regulation of emissions from combustion plants with an output of between 1 and 50 mw. it introduces more flexibility than the european commission's original proposal, by requiring different schemes and application deadlines depending on the size of the industrial units. the report recommends that emission limits apply from 2025 for existing installations between 5 and 50 mw, and from 2030 for those between 1 and 5 mw. it proposes that certain installations, including district heating systems, biomass units, those in isolated areas and overseas territories, and specific installations linked to a national natural gas transmission network, be exempted until 2030. the text also proposes that in areas where air quality standards are not met, member states should consider applying stricter limits to installations. the aim is to harmonise operating conditions in the eu and to fight for environmental protection while maintaining the flexibility needed to avoid putting energy companies at risk.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive which aims to improve air quality in europe. by setting maximum emission limits for the most harmful pollutants for health and the environment (sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and co2) from medium-sized combustion plants, this directive aims to strengthen health and safety standards for plants which until now have depended solely on national standards. this harmonization is therefore a real health breakthrough in europe.
in writing. ‒ this report on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere aims to fill a legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides. medium-sized combustion plants are used in a wide range of applications. they are located between the small and the large thermal installations. the text imposes new constraints on member states, such as the application of a stricter emission limit in areas which do not comply with european air quality standards, etc. most of these measures, devised by the most technocratic brains in the commission, will certainly have a negative impact on industry, while the environmental benefits seem to be very small. i have therefore decided to vote against this absolutely harmful text which would pollute the legal environment of national industries.
in writing. ‒ in order to achieve the 2030 climate targets, the union is trying to reduce air pollution by limiting emissions from certain pollutants. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the regulation of emissions from medium-sized combustion plants (from 1 to 50 mw). i voted in favour of this text and i would like to stress the flexibility offered by this agreement. the text proposes different schemes depending on the size of the industrial installations. the text also includes exemptions until 2030 for certain types of installations such as district heating systems or installations linked to biomass.
in writing. ‒ even if this text is less ambitious than what environmentalists advocate, it will put an end to the european legal vacuum in this area. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the emission limits for large combustion plants are respected, but not for medium combustion plants such as those used to produce electricity, heat or steam for industrial purposes. the member states had made very lax proposals to limit emissions, but environmentalists fought to improve the text. we have gotten measures to be taken to increase the energy efficiency of these facilities.
in writing. ‒ at present, emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants i.e. electricity generators or heating systems for domestic or industrial use are not regulated at eu level, unlike small and large plants. these plants produce large quantities of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust. in total, some 143 000 installations are affected in the european union. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution to limit emissions from medium combustion plants. with more than 400 000 deaths a year attributed to air pollution, and with its considerable environmental impact and economic damage, action is urgently needed to ensure better air quality for european citizens. and while the ceilings are ambitious, we call on member states to introduce stricter limits in areas that do not meet european air quality standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets emission limits for two pollutants from medium-sized combustion plants (1 to 50 mw): sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. the text makes it possible, in particular, to fill the european legal vacuum in the field of medium combustion plants, since the commission's initial proposal did not regulate them. it should also be noted that the commission will have to take into account the results of its study on carbon monoxide, which is subject to monitoring. the report thus makes progress in the control of certain pollutants in the atmosphere.
in writing. ‒ while pollutant emissions from small and large combustion appliances are covered by european legislation, there is a legal vacuum on medium combustion appliances. these devices, with a power of between 1 and 50 mw, are numerous in our daily lives, for example as electrical generators or domestic and residential heating systems. the epp rapporteur wanted to lower the ambitions of the european commission, but the socialists fought back and 150 000 appliances will have to meet new ecological requirements. on the eve of cop 21 in paris, i therefore voted in favour of this report, to enable the european commission to propose binding legislation quickly, which will enable us to continue to achieve our objectives in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to fill a legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust. regulatory changes are the responsibility of the member states and the burden on industry. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers in the event of accidents at work is a very good one. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to limit greenhouse gas emissions from medium combustion plants, i.e. those with a thermal output of between 1 and 50 mw. this category has not been covered by european standards until now, although it is a major source of gas emissions and concerns nearly 150 000 installations in the european union used for domestic or industrial purposes. i regret that the text has not been able to impose lower emission thresholds as we would have liked, but it is important to continue to set limits for new installations such as these. i also regret certain parts of the directive concerning the exclusion of the outermost regions, in particular the french overseas departments. the retreat of the french and spanish right wing, justified by so-called technical problems in the implementation of these standards, is entirely reprehensible. this excludes a large proportion of european citizens and the territories on which they live from the protection of nature and fragile ecosystems. i am voting for this directive, however, because its aim is to reduce emissions of polluting gases and it allows the european parliament to send a new signal a few weeks before cop 21.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends changing the maximum milk fat content of dietary acid casein (from 2.25% to 2%) and the maximum moisture content of dietary casein (from 10% to 12%). these changes will be required by producers and actors in the agri-food sector. the commission said that these changes would improve the competitiveness of european producers, who would then be placed on a 'level playing field on the world market'. the report also confirms the intention to delegate to the commission the power to adopt acts which will enable the regulation to be adapted rapidly to 'international standards and future technical progress (sic) '. in the context of the obscure negotiations of the itcp, it is recommended to oppose attempts to align with international standards that are strongly subject to the commercial purposes of globalist institutions. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to support the commission in its efforts to achieve global 'harmonisation': in view of the union's trade policies, such harmonisation risks lowering our food safety standards. in general, in the context of the ttip/iccp negotiations, i am opposed to attempts to align on international standards that are heavily subordinated to north american interests. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report on caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption is intended to harmonise and update the regulations on certain lactoproteins used in the production of foodstuffs intended for human consumption. the report proposes two main changes to the maximum moisture content of dietary casein (from 10% to 12%) and the maximum milk fat content of dietary acid casein (from 2.25% to 2%). however, this development should allow for alignment with international standards, such as those described in the codex alimentarius, the provisions of which should not, however, be a barrier to world trade. the commission also mentions the competitiveness gains of this directive for producers and the report finally confirms the willingness to delegate to the commission the power to adopt acts. the support for global harmonisation is therefore stronger here, especially as the eu trade policies on which it is based generally lead to a downward revision of food safety standards (especially with the uncertain future of the ptci negotiations). i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends harmonising the regulations on the use of certain lactoproteins in the agri-food industry. the rapporteur proposes to increase the maximum moisture content of casein from 10% to 12% and to lower the maximum milk fat content of casein from 2.25% to 2%. these measures are part of the european commission's desire to align itself with international standards which are designed to protect the consumer but which must not in any way restrict trade. the aim of the european institutions is to increase the competitiveness of agri-food players before the ratification of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, which will exacerbate competition with us firms. we therefore oppose this text, the adoption of which will lead to a lowering of food standards to the detriment of the consumer. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur suggests that the commission should be followed in the process of harmonising and updating the regulations on certain lactoproteins used in the production of foodstuffs for human consumption. the aim is to support the commission in achieving global harmonisation based on the union's trade policies, which generally have the effect of lowering food safety standards. i therefore opposed this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes a revision of the european legislative framework on lactoproteins (casein and caseinates) for human consumption. in particular, it aims to adapt existing standards to developments in food law and to align the regulatory powers conferred on the european commission with the new provisions of the lisbon treaty. this power conferred on the european commission will be reviewed every 5 years from the implementation of these new rules. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which was not a problem. it is important that all member states have the same legislation on casein and caseinates. food security is one of the european parliament's priorities.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to align member states' legislation on casein and caseinates for human consumption with international standards that are more dependent on free trade and globalism. in this case, although stricter criteria are applied, this is nevertheless done at the expense of national sovereignty. the alignment of european food safety and health standards with international standards is very often synonymous with greater integration into the world market. if consumer health protection is a priority for my action, i cannot support a transfer of control of our regulatory apparatus to a poorly defined global system. that is why i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to harmonise particularly questionable global criteria.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends changing the maximum moisture content of dietary casein (from 10% to 12%) and the maximum milk fat content of dietary acid casein (from 2.25% to 2%). these changes are first and foremost required of producers and actors in the agri-food sector. international harmonization of consumer protection and health should not, however, be a hindrance to world trade. secondly, according to the commission, these amendments would contribute to the competitiveness boost which the directive would bring to european producers, who would then be placed on a 'level playing field on the world market'. finally, the report confirms the will to delegate to the commission the power to adopt acts which will enable this adjustment to global standards to be carried out rapidly, with the same oasis of progress in view. in the context of the obscure negotiations of the itcp, it is recommended to oppose attempts to align on international standards that are heavily subordinated to the commercial purposes of globalist institutions, at the expense of food safety standards. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr giovanni la via, on casein and caseinates in the context of human nutrition. the aim of this text is to replace an existing directive by bringing the laws of the member states closer together and bringing them into line with existing international standards. the labelling requirements have also been strengthened to enable consumers with allergies to make informed choices. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which will allow a single european directive to cover several types of products, including casein and caseinates, intended for human consumption. the aim is to ensure that member states adopt the same position with regard to these products.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur suggests that the commission should be followed in a global harmonisation and updating of the regulations on certain lactoproteins used in the production of foodstuffs for human consumption. the aim is to support the commission in its efforts to achieve global harmonization based on the union's trade policies, which generally have the effect of lowering food safety standards. we are opposed to this systematic alignment with international standards which are not in the interests of consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it is intended to harmonize national regulations on certain lactoproteins used for human consumption, with a view to promoting the adoption of the transatlantic trade and free trade agreement (tafta). this is clearly a first step towards the lowering of food safety standards, which the americans want.
in writing. ‒ caseins and caseinates are milk proteins commonly used in the food industry (cheese making, wine blending, etc.). the proposal aims to harmonise the legislation on these products at union level. the maximum moisture content of food caseins and the maximum milk fat content of food casein are now set at 12% and 2% respectively (instead of the current 10% and 2.25%). the text also includes provisions on the labelling of caseins and caseinates intended for human consumption to ensure the presence and accuracy of information on foodstuffs intended for the final consumer. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the report recommends changing the maximum moisture content of dietary casein (from 10% to 12%) and the maximum milk fat content of dietary acid casein (from 2.25% to 2%). these changes are first and foremost required of producers and actors in the agri-food sector. international harmonization of consumer protection and health should not, however, be a hindrance to world trade. secondly, according to the commission, these amendments would contribute to the competitiveness boost which the directive would bring to european producers, who would then be placed on a 'level playing field on the world market'. the report also confirms the intention to delegate to the commission the power to adopt acts to enable the rapid adaptation of this system to 'international standards and future technical progress'. in the context of the obscure negotiations of the itcp, it is recommended to oppose attempts to align on international standards that are heavily subordinated to the commercial purposes of globalist institutions, at the expense of food safety standards. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. this report proposes to follow the european commission's plans to harmonise and update the regulation on certain lactoproteins used in the production of foodstuffs for human consumption. however, the real aim of this proposal is to align european standards with international standards in order to enable eu producers to achieve 'competitiveness gains'. the report confirms the intention to transfer to the commission full powers to adopt acts which would enable the rapid adaptation of these regulations to 'international standards'. the commission's policy on agricultural trade, which has had the known effect of lowering food safety standards, must therefore be supported. i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on casein and caseinates. it authorises the commission to amend the directive currently applicable to these milk proteins. the aim is to bring the composition criteria of these products into line with the international codex alimentarius standard and to harmonize the laws of the member states. these measures will ensure that european companies in the milk and milk products sector have better conditions of competition on the world market. this is essential if the eu is to compete on an equal footing with new emerging countries such as china and especially india, which became the world's largest milk producer in the early 2000s. the text also aims to ensure the protection of consumers, in particular those suffering from food allergies, by strengthening labelling requirements. this will enable them to make informed choices about their products.
in writing. this resolution proposes to harmonise legislation on caseins and caseinates, two milk proteins commonly used in the agri-food industry. the new rules would set the maximum moisture content of casein in foodstuffs at 12% and the maximum milk fat content of casein in foodstuffs at 2%. it is therefore proposed that labelling of these two proteins on consumer food products be systematically carried out, thus enhancing food safety for the consumer. i support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to follow the european commission's proposal to harmonise and update the regulation on certain lactoproteins used in the production of foodstuffs for human consumption. however, the real aim of this proposal is to align european standards with international standards in order to achieve 'competitiveness gains' for eu producers. it confirmed the intention to transfer to the commission full powers to adopt acts which would allow the rapid adaptation of this regulation to 'international standards'. the commission's policy on agricultural trade, which has had the known effect of lowering food safety standards, must therefore be supported. i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a text replacing the current directive on casein and caseinates intended for human consumption. i voted in favour of this text because it aims to bring food standards more closely into line with the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of updating directive 83/417/eec, which provides for the approximation of the laws of the member states concerning certain milk proteins (caseins and caseinates) intended for human consumption. several changes have taken place since the entry into force of the directive, such as the development of a comprehensive legal framework in the field of food regulation, the adoption of an international standard (codex alimentarius) for casein and the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the new directive provides for more precise calculation of the milk protein content on the basis of the absolute weight of the product (instead of the current method based on dried extract), improved labelling, an update of the definition of 'casein' to the codex alimentarius standard and a limitation of delegated acts to 5 years.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to support the commission in a global harmonisation based on the eu's trade policies, which generally have the effect of lowering food safety standards. in the context of the obscure negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip and tafta), it is recommended to oppose attempts to align on international standards that are strongly subject to the commercial purposes of globalist institutions. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission's proposal to apply the new 2014 market directives to the procurement of european union bodies. the provisions of the text did not make major changes, but they were questionable. thus, 'the award on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender' cannot be accepted as it stands since it neglects quality. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it significantly improves the commission's text. in particular, it obliges contracting authorities to justify the decision not to use the award of a contract.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a logical and necessary application of the public procurement directive to the eu itself. i welcome the improvement in procedures and the reduction in deadlines. the system can nevertheless be improved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which is opposed to the commission's proposal and which improves the situation by requiring the contracting authority to justify its decision not to use the award of a contract.
in writing. this text aims to apply the new rules on public procurement adopted by the eu in 2014 (and currently being transposed by the member states) to the procurement of eu institutions and bodies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'contracting authority' to cover all contracts awarded by the contracting authority. unfortunately, the criterion of the 'most economically advantageous tender' may seem attractive or even necessary from the point of view of public finances, but it hinders local production and undermines environmental criteria. i voted for it, however.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed to parliament a text to bring the financial regulation into line with the new directives on public procurement for external actions. the application of the rules on the award of public contracts prolongs the time limits and therefore does not allow the member states to intervene quickly and effectively. their proposal adds nothing to the substance, except for the addition of unwise criteria, in particular the one which requires that the contract be awarded on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender. the legislative resolution, on the other hand, improves the commission's text. it requires the contracting authority to justify its decision not to award a contract. that is why i voted for this legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the revision of the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. it includes new principles for public procurement and a clause on compliance with sustainable development rules. the text also lays down provisions on cases of conflict of interest for staff of the european institutions. i voted in favour of the report's objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the new directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts need to be implemented in order to have a more competitive and open european market.
in writing. ‒ the first set of financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union did not raise any major problems; i voted yes. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was compatible with the internal market. while these provisions do not make major changes, they add questionable criteria such as 'award on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender'. i voted against it. the second part of the second set of provisions requires the contracting authority to justify its decision not to use the award of a contract, since tax evasion is a ground for excluding the candidate. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ingeborg grässle on the new financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the aim is to revise the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union to take account of the adoption of the directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts, which is intended to increase the transparency and efficiency of the budgetary procedure. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it makes it possible to adapt the financial regulation applicable to the union budget to the new european rules, in particular those concerning public procurement and the award of concession contracts.
in writing. ‒ this text aims to apply the new rules on public procurement adopted by the eu in 2014 (and currently being transposed by the member states) to the eu institutions and bodies. the commission's initial text does not make any major changes to the previous directives (even though it reinforces the allocation rule allowing smes to apply more easily), but it adds some critically important criteria such as 'allocation on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer', which favours the lesser of two evils to the detriment of 'producing locally' and social or environmental criteria. the amendments proposed by the meps include a number of interesting changes, such as the requirement for the contracting authority to justify the decision not to use the award of a contract or the fact that tax fraud is a reason for excluding a candidate. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the first set of financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union did not raise any major problems. the member voted yes. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was compatible with the internal market. while these provisions do not make major changes, they add questionable criteria such as 'award on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender'. the member voted against. the second part of the second set of provisions requires the contracting authority to justify its decision not to use the award of a contract, since tax evasion is a ground for excluding the candidate. the member voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal aims to adapt the regulation on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union to take account of the new directives on the award of public contracts and on the award of concession contracts for contracts awarded by the institutions of the union on their own account. new provisions are introduced, such as the obligation to comply with environmental and social law or the method of awarding contracts on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender. however, in a liberal logic, the text also favours public-private partnerships. the text also proposes to speed up the procedure for awarding contracts for external action and the common security and defence policy (csdp). for these reasons i abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union. the text deals with adaptation to the new european directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts. the aim is to ensure that all economic operators have access to these markets and to provide them with greater legal certainty. i voted in favour of the amendment which stresses the importance of efficient, transparent and appropriate use of european funds when awarding such contracts. in times of economic crisis, it is essential to maintain a rigorous management of public money and to safeguard the businesses that are the basis of wealth creation in europe.
in writing. this text aims to apply the new rules on public procurement adopted by the eu in 2014 (and currently being transposed by the member states) to the procurement of eu institutions and bodies. the commission's initial text does not make any major changes to the previous directives (even though it strengthens the allocation rule allowing more smes to apply), but adds some critically important criteria such as 'allocation on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer', which favours the least-favoured at the expense of 'producing locally' and social or environmental criteria. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the new directive on the protection of the environment. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this text aims to apply the new public procurement rules adopted by the eu in 2014 (and currently being transposed by the member states) to public procurement for the eu institutions and bodies. the commission's initial text does not make any major changes to the previous directives (even though it strengthens the allocation rule allowing more smes to apply), but adds some critically important criteria such as 'allocation on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer', which encourages the least-favoured-nation to the detriment of 'producing locally' and social or environmental criteria. the amendments proposed by the meps include a number of interesting changes, such as the requirement for the contracting authority to justify the decision not to use the award of a contract or the fact that tax fraud is a reason for excluding a candidate. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of the revision of the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union following the adoption of the directives on public procurement and the award of concession contracts. this text helps to simplify and clarify european legislation on financial rules.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of new directives on the award of public contracts and concession contracts, the rules had to be adapted to apply to contracts awarded by the eu institutions. these amendments relate to the introduction of new provisions such as market consultation, better compliance with environmental, social and labour law and control of the award method on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender by subjecting it to compliance with the abovementioned standards. the european parliament stressed the need for controls on public procurement procedures and concession contracts, notably through the european anti-fraud office, and called for tax evasion and fraud to be included in these controls. the european parliament has thus put in place a number of safeguards, although it is regrettable that they are insufficient in the award of contracts relating to the common security and defence policy. so i voted for it.
on behalf of the enf group. thank you, mrs merkel, for the pleasure of coming with your vice-chancellor, administrator of the province of france. mr vice-chancellor, i wish i could call you mr president of the republic out of respect for your office, but you are not the president of the republic, any more than your predecessor was. a president of the republic could not say: 'sovereignty is declinism', as you have just said, because the president of the republic is the guarantor of the french constitution and title i of the french constitution is: 'of sovereignty'. a president of the republic cannot consistently ignore the interests of france. it is not in france's interest to submit blindly to a policy decided in berlin, brussels or washington. it is in his interest and your duty to defend his sovereignty. france's interest is not to give this distressing spectacle of a france to germany's trailer on the migration issue. when chancellor merkel, in a completely irresponsible gesture, says that 800 000 migrants must be welcomed with open arms, you applaud. when, a few days later, it suspends schengen and wants to control its borders, you applaud again, giving france the dismal image of a country adrift, hesitating on a question that is so essential to the security, prosperity and defence of france's identity. it is also in france's interest not to abdicate in the face of dr schaüble when the economic policy of the continent is being decided, even though this policy is synonymous with mass unemployment, precariousness and the collapse of our social protection system. on the contrary, it is to resist and prevent greece, the other countries of southern europe and then france from being dragged into an endless austerity spiral, with the sole aim of saving the euro and the german economic model of low wages. you both come here to make up for the fact that your european union is collapsing, exacerbating immigration assaults as well as economic assaults, and forced to maintain itself through blackmail, threats and intimidation. your model is the vassalage of the united states, austerity, unfair competition, mass surveillance of citizens, social dumping, the flood of migration. i am referring to another model which unites the peoples of europe today, that of independence, of a europe of nations in a multipolar world, of intelligent protectionism - yes, of individual freedoms, of defending our security and our identities by totally stopping mass immigration. some people will sum up by saying that i am the anti-merkel, i accept the omen. i do not, madam president, recognize your right to dispose of us in an absurd attempt to establish german domination over europe. the defence of german interests does not justify the subjugation of the other peoples of europe. i am here in this house to speak for free europeans, for our sovereign peoples who are turning their backs on the european union because they are hungry for a nation. i am the representative of the french people who are turning their backs on you, mr hollande, as they turned their backs on mr sarkozy yesterday, because they are thirsty for france. (applause from the enf group)
mr president, madam chancellor, welcome to strasbourg, a symbolic seat, but i would point out that this parliament is very much under threat. you have the overwhelming responsibility, at least in theory, of leading two of the great founding states of the union. but this western europe, and particularly france and germany, are, alas, countries in decline. demographic, economic, social, cultural, political and spiritual decline, and mr hollande, this is not the fault of the sovereignists. as i looked at his majesty the king of spain this afternoon, i thought, as i looked at him, that the first of the great european civil wars between our nations was precisely in 1870 the candidacy of a hohenzollern prince to the throne of spain. it is good - it has been said many times - that these conflicts have subsided. but what would have been the point of so much suffering, sacrifice, toil, hope, if it had not been to integrate into a space open to unfair competition of products manufactured, in conditions of slavery, by the labor of states without social laws, without minimum wages, without protection of workers and without freedom of association? what good is it to boast of independence gained at great cost if it is to submit to the will of the present superpower? you spoke of guarantees, mr hollande. have you forgotten that this year alone the united states of america stole 9 billion euros from the french bank bnp paribas, without a word of protest from you? i heard president schulz say to the king of spain that the challenge of our time was immigration. when jean-marie le pen announced that this would be the case, several decades ago, he was already accused of stirring up unfounded fears. you say you are satisfied with having distributed 160,000 political refugees or accepted them as such. however, this europe, which speaks only of human rights, has closed its doors to two unquestionable refugees who were wrong to inform us about the spying practices of the washington government. it's about julian assange and edward snowden, still being held outside our borders. never since the theoretical abolition of frontiers have so many walls, fences and barbed wire been built. inconsistency is everywhere, as it is internationally. the european union has been a major player in the development of the middle east and the middle east. in a word, we would like more respect for national identities, for the will of the people, more protection of our interests, more freedom, less bureaucracy and, above all, the restoration of the family, cultural and spiritual values which have made our civilization great. are you ready to hear the roar of the people who rise? it's late, it's already very late. god willing, it's not too late. (applause from the non-attached members)
in writing. twenty-five years after the fall of the berlin wall, german and french allies meet in parliament to debate the current state of the eu. except that now france and its president françois hollande are no longer considered germany's ally but germany's vassal, the vice-chancellor in short. this situation has in fact been going on since the introduction of the single currency and the ecb's control of inflation at all costs under pressure from german directives and wishes. france, a great nation, must not allow itself to be diluted in this european magma and must not succumb to german wishful thinking. unlike the president of the republic, i want to fight to defend our sovereignty and our identity. it is in our interest not to give in to the american wishes which want to suffocate us with ttip and ultraliberalism which kills peoples. we also have an interest in fighting the flood of migrants and islamists that is overwhelming europe and in categorically rejecting the austerity measures imposed by brussels, which governments are applying without hesitation (this is what is happening in greece). in view of this, a radical change in policy and model is urgently needed.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i am not opposed to a german presidency. i am ashamed of what was said in this chamber before the chancellor. mr vice-president of the commission, mr katainen, we are always pleased to see lord hill but we are pleased that you are here today for one reason: you are in charge of investment, you have carried out the juncker plan, and the first difficulty i have with the capital markets union is that the title does not say what the objective is. the title speaks of a tool, instead of talking about what we want to do together and i believe that at a time when citizens are so much wondering about the meaning of the european union, it would perhaps be important for them to propose something a little more sexy than "capital markets union". i have three questions. first of all, can we really contain - and i hope not - the texts on the prospectus and the titration? i remember that the green paper begins with the words: we want to support growth and employment, which is the right objective. i think that the other stages must be speeded up, because if, in the end, it is on these two subjects that we have a great success, i believe that, there too, we will have a little trouble with the citizens. secondly, kay swinburne comes from the saying, it's a real cultural change that we're trying to implement. europe is not accustomed to financing companies by the market, so it is necessary to tackle the question of taxation, which is decisive for building up private savings, particularly but also institutional savings, and then also the whole question of the bankruptcy of companies which can help some to invest. the last thing i wanted to mention was the coherence of what we are doing. is it not true that the structural reforms in the banking sector have not yet achieved the spirit of the capital markets union? i think there is something important, complementarity should prevail over opposition. we are counting on you, mr commissioner, to bring this information to lord hill, but also to be honest with you, to be honest with the college when there is a discussion, to plead for investment, investment and investment.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the revival of securitisation is the first major project of the capital markets union. this priority, unanimously supported by the european union, the ecb and the bank of england, is a priori suspect. it is important to remember that the securitisation mechanism is the cause of the subprime crisis. this sounds like a dangerous reopening of the big casino, the primary cause of the 2008 global financial crisis. i would point out at this point a great paradox: the capital markets union is intended to be a set of measures to decentralise the financing of companies. now, your first step is to relaunch securitisation to free up the banks' balance sheets and also improve their ratio, all to allow them to lend more. now, we're back to square one. the banking system will receive hefty commissions for complying with the solvency rules, but without any guarantee of financing the real economy. i'm still worried about a big game of fools, especially since commissioner hill's past as a former city lobbyist makes him a careful spokesman for financial and banking interests. but beyond this, two questions must be asked: firstly, whether the sts securitisation rules proposed by the directive are sufficient to avoid the abuses of the past and, secondly, whether this sts label will be sufficient to effectively relaunch the financing of local smes. on the first point, i would say that the text shows a framework which appears to be sound: we need homogeneous credits, a clear modelling of cash flows and a ban on the spread of risk in the investor chain. two criticisms at this stage, i regret the 5% level of total securitised loans that must be held by the issuer. it's obviously too low. it is necessary to ensure that this issuer shares the financial risk by setting a much higher threshold and it is also necessary to provide it with an overall limit so that the majority of a balance sheet is not fully securitised. secondly, on sanctions, the news shows that private banks have nothing to do with billions of fines as long as they remain proportionately small in relation to the tens of billions of euros of profits they generate and make. the amounts provided for will not act as a deterrent to the financial flood which is about to break out, especially since they are left to the discretion of each member state. it is not certain that the financialally accommodating countries, such as the united kingdom or luxembourg, will take very strict measures. secondly, what is the impact on the actual financing of the real economy? to increase the balance sheet of banks... so that this sts securitization label includes mechanisms forcing banks to lend in return. give and take. for example, by requiring them to take back their debts in proportion to what is not lent to businesses and individuals within a reasonable period. unfortunately, the draft directive does not provide for this, but, beyond securitisation, the real question is whether the economic environment is such that banks will be willing to finance projects to create value and jobs. and that requires confidence, stability and having hyper-volatile capital markets as they are, mass unemployment, a high-risk geopolitical situation, over-indebtedness of states. the environment resulting from the ultra-liberal economic model of the european union is still as negative. the enf group will remain very attentive to developments on this market.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr tajani, and the fictitious rapporteurs, in particular olle ludvigsson and sophie in't veld, for their commitment to the dossier. the negotiating team defended with all seriousness the good compromise which had been reached in the previous parliament. tomorrow parliament will be able to pass a text which will advance consumer rights. by aligning it with the data protection directive, it will ensure greater protection of personal data. by regulating the use of new means of payment and prohibiting overcharging, the text will reduce the indecent rents of certain market players. it is a pity, however, that the council has still concentrated on defending a few exceptions which will reduce the scope of the new directive.
madam president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are all in favour of the law accompanying technological innovation, accompanying innovation in use, such as the new online payment services we are discussing today. i think we are all collectively pleased that europe is seeing the emergence of players in this fintech sector. but this satisfaction must not lead us to a kind of blind enthusiasm. there are a number of policy objectives that we set ourselves: security of purchases, equality between payment institutions and, of course, data protection, because we are regulators. it is important to remember, when we are discussing this directive, that we are saying yes to innovation but no to deregulation. this must guide our action. from this point of view, even if it is a draft directive which has been discussed at length, which has been developed at length, on this specific issue of data protection, the guarantees are not necessarily always sufficient. we have already spoken about the banks, and i am not going to defend them, but we have rightly subjected them to very high standards. payments via banks are more secure and, when we do surveys, we notice that consumers, who make an online payment, have more confidence in their bank themselves. there's another debate. we have fought for data security and protection and, moreover, the court of justice of the european union itself has just finally given us the upper hand with its ruling on the safe harbor agreement. what i mean, very simply and quickly, is that yes, we need to create definitions and statutes for these new uses but we need to be patient with such transformations. the guarantees must not be removed to speed up a development which still needs to be confirmed. i therefore really think that we should create common rules and stick to them. innovation, yes, it is! the deregulation, no! (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". this is precisely the difficulty we are in. things are moving very, very fast and we as legislators must keep up with this development and, at the same time, constantly establish rules, rules of conduct, new standards. so, from this point of view, as i said, there are no rules if there are no guarantees, and in particular on one fundamental point: the guarantee of data protection. in any case, i think - and i am sure you do too - that this is our main objective. there is this conflict that we have to resolve between technological innovation that is fast and our role as legislators that is slower. we must adapt, but we must always adapt with the objective, which is our objective, of ensuring that our fellow citizens, who are also consumers, are protected, particularly in their fundamental freedoms.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when you want to kill your dog, you accuse him of having rabies, but in this case it is you who have had to bark and bite the hand that feeds you. i am, of course, referring to russia, on which we depend. i am far from happy about this, but the fact is that it is unanimous. let me remind you of the final judgment of jérôme ferrier, president of the french gas association and of the international gas union. in an interview with le figaro, which i have already quoted in this house, published the day after russia abandoned the south stream project, mr ferrier said, and i quote, 'europe cannot get rid of russian gas'. whether you like it or not, it's a fact. this is an undeniable fact, confirmed by fatih birol, the new executive director of the international energy agency. but in all this, it must be admitted that it is the ukrainians, or at least their current leaders, who have been the most furious. encouraged by you, the ukrainian authorities have been accusing russia of all the wrongdoing. but apart from the fact that they have failed to ensure the safety of the gas pipeline that runs through their country, with large amounts of gas diverted, it should be remembered that gazprom has often closed or threatened to close the valves because ukraine's naftogaz is constantly late with payments and does not pay its arrears. after numerous bilateral and trilateral negotiations between the european union, ukraine and russia, the commission announced in a communiqué on 25 september that it would pay $500 million to ukraine to enable it to buy russian gas this winter. yes, $500 million is what it is. the commission still prefers the dollar to the euro. definitely a waste. so much the better if the ukrainian homes will be able to warm themselves this winter but, unfortunately for them, the ukrainians do not yet know your horse remedies. they do not realise all the consequences of their rapprochement with the european union, as has happened, namely, a hatred of russia, their historical big brother and, in fact, their natural partner. this could have been avoided for many countries in south-east europe which could have benefited from the tremendous economic benefits of the south stream project, namely bulgaria, serbia, hungary but also italy and greece. to supplement this aborted project, the german groups basf and e.on, the french engie, the austrian omv and the anglo-dutch shell finally signed a shareholders' pact for the construction of nord stream 2 on 4 september. gazprom will own 51% of the project, with e.on, shell, omv and basf each taking 10%. the french engie will be involved in this project to the tune of 9%. this was announced at the vladivostok economic forum and we welcome this project which will double the current capacity. so let the commission not come along and screw up everything and try to derail this project after forcing russia to give up the ambitious south stream. these are long-term contracts, which guarantee stability. that is what we need more than ever if we are to regain a climate of lasting peace in europe, rather than this new cold war that you have started. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. mr president, your remarks are emblematic of the hostile attitude towards russia that is often expressed in the european parliament. until proven otherwise, gazprom has never been short of gas. as for the differentiated tariffs you mention, they are probably largely due to ukraine's repeated and deliberate defaults in its payments to russia and the absolutely considerable arrears of payments which have not been honoured.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 september last gazprom announced the signing of an agreement for the construction of the nord stream 2 gas pipeline, thus increasing the capacity of nord stream, which is, it should be recalled, a gas pipeline linking russia directly to germany via the baltic sea and bypassing ukraine. the project will increase the european union's dependence on russian gas by 55 billion cubic metres a year. as the european commission has made the security and diversification of energy supplies one of its priorities in the context of the energy union, i regret that this agreement is contrary to our interests. we need to expand our southern supply. moreover, instability among energy producing or transit countries such as ukraine, the middle east and north africa calls for greater unity and solidarity among member states. europe now imports 55% of its gas, which is why we must have a more coordinated energy policy and a genuine energy diplomacy, so as to have a greater say in the negotiations with our partners.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, here is another legislative report that is a bit of a catch-all. parliament, with this motion for a resolution, is once again ruining the essential fight for women in the interests of special interests and ideologies. in this report you denounce mainly violence against women, while pointing out the shortcomings of the 2010-2015 action plan, particularly in priority areas such as ensuring the physical and psychological integrity of women and girls in developing countries. you're just missing the point. our peoples would be pleased if you could name the countries and regions of the world where violence of all kinds is most frequently perpetrated against women. to whom do you want the commission to send this message? you may lack courage, but the essence of this violence is rooted in cultures dominated by islamic fundamentalism that is spreading across all continents, and even here in europe. i will quote the words of the imam of the mosque of brest at the muslim women's salon in pontoise, france, reported in various newspapers: "if the woman goes out without honor - that is to say without the islamic veil - she is not surprised that men abuse this woman". it's hard to be more clear. our utopian desire for gender equality is light years away from what women experience in these countries where forced marriage and sterilization, domestic violence, the sale of women in slave markets, and so on, have become their terrible daily routine. we cannot speak of these horrors without mentioning those terrorist organisations, such as the islamic state or boko haram, which are so powerful that they threaten the existence of many legitimate states, terrorist organisations whose power is largely the responsibility of the foreign policies of the european union, the united states and the gulf monarchies themselves, which are so actively opposed to the values you defend in this report. i myself have just returned from st petersburg, where the eurasian women's forum was taking place. seven hundred women from eighty nations, national parliamentarians, representatives of executives, ngos, companies and universities, came to witness the daily lives of women in their countries, both at the professional and political level and at the personal and physical level. women in these countries where islamist terrorists have been terrorizing have witnessed atrocities that affect them, such as rape and physical torture, including the removal of their genitals so that they can never give birth again. what these women are asking for in their vows is that we come to help them in their country or that we come to help their government fight these terrorists. as i said in the preamble, this is a legislative package. in this report you also call for specific actions to strengthen the rights of sexual minorities, such as lgbti people. do you think these developing countries really need this and how far will you go in your imperialist fantasies?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, it is clear that, despite the efforts made and the european legislative arsenal on equality between men and women, including equal pay, is well supplied , in recent years, the reduction of wage inequalities and the fight against wage discrimination against women in the labour market have stagnated. we cannot therefore stand idly by. we need to look at being more efficient, more credible in order to achieve results. that is what our fellow citizens expect. i welcome the work of our colleague, anna záborská, who, in taking stock, in a very honest, very precise and very exhaustive way, of the application of the 2006 directive, points out the shortcomings and deficiencies and, above all, proposes concrete and operational ways of acting. once again, we must be able to be precise and to provide practical solutions. she's working up a few leads. we must not refrain from thinking of sanctions if we are to make the imperative of reducing wage inequalities in our european companies truly credible. we must seriously consider, with certainly thorough studies, whether we can distinguish between, on the one hand, the real cases of discrimination against women, which are absolutely intolerable, unjustifiable and incomprehensible, given the waste that this represents and the female potential that is thus disregarded and set aside, and, on the other hand, the too many obstacles, glass ceilings and other obstacles to women's progress. it's time to act. we all expect the european commission to come forward with a proposal for legislative reform, which we will support.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how many times are we going to have reports and questions on equality in this parliament, when we have member states who lack courage? the first is dramatic. it's the most glaring, it's of course the question of wages. in this regard, today, when we look at the latest figures and data, the average wage for women in the eu countries is still 16.4% lower than in 2013. in 2008, it was 17.3%. at this rate, it will take 71 years 71 years! for gender equality in pay to be achieved. whereas the very principle in the european union is equal pay for equal work. that's the basic principle. therefore, after years of inaction, it is high time that this changes because the issue of wages is just a big symbol, but behind it, there are all the issues concerning pensions, when we know that women receive an average pension of 39% less than men and that the directive adopted in 2013 which requires, in particular, that companies have at least 40% of women on the boards of directors, is still not applied ... what do you need to do? i think the word is sanction. we must punish those states which do not respect the principles of equality, and we must also punish the companies.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i thank my colleague, mrs záborská, for her thorough work. i also share her concern to promote access for women to the labour market, especially those who have started a family and have children. i also support the desire to give mothers who work from home, particularly those who are selfemployed, better social protection. i am glad that the situation of the most vulnerable is taken into account, particularly single mothers, who very often live below the poverty line in france but also in all the other member states. but unfortunately the opponents of the traditional family of a man and a woman and their children have been very hard on your text, madam, and have drowned your good intentions in a flood of considerations which have nothing to do with the subject of your report, which, i remind you, is the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in matters of employment and work. what do race, ethnic origin or religion have to do with this report? why was there a need to distinguish lesbian or bisexual women from other women? what does this obsession with gender reassignment have to do with the report? there are no less than six references, i counted, to gender reassignment and transsexualism. i am not convinced that the people concerned, who are quite few, would also like to be accused in this way. i therefore deeply regret that your report, which is sincerely very commendable in its content, is distorted by an exacerbated lgbt communitarianism and by this desire to destroy the foundations of our society. i will not be able to vote for him in his present state, and i am sorry.
author. mr president, the central african republic is facing the worst humanitarian crisis since its independence. the whole population is affected and two and a half million people, half the population, mainly children, are in need of emergency assistance, including food aid. this is not a simple clash between religious communities but an exploitation of them. the security disturbances are perpetrated by political-military groups, against the background of the grabbing of resources wood and diamonds, in particular with the complicity of large multinationals. the european union should therefore focus its action primarily on a political rather than a military solution to the conflict, tackling its roots, i.e. underdevelopment and the fight against corruption. a transparent and independent investigation into alleged crimes committed by both sangaris' french and un forces is necessary because these acts are intolerable. we shall not vote in favour of this resolution, which welcomes the action taken. they failed. unfortunately, the result is in and we have doubts about the possibility of holding elections under good conditions.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, peace is once again in doubt in the central african republic: 61 dead, 300 wounded last week in bangui. i was part of the european parliament delegation last february, which made a number of proposals and actions which are still relevant, commissioner. first of all, we must hold legislative elections as soon as possible. this political transition, which is what the president, mrs catherine samba-panza, wants, does not exist and therefore we must do everything we can to organise these parliamentary elections. our first priority is to disarm the militias. we must carry out this disarmament of the militias. secondly, to end violence and instability, we must prepare for the future. i would invite all member states which have not yet done so to participate in the becque fund. the fund has 54 million euros for the long-term development of the country. it's not enough. we must therefore ensure, commissioner, that you are proactive in ensuring that all member states are involved in this fund.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the young shia man ali mohammed al-nimr was sentenced to death by beheading with a sword, followed by crucifixion, by the supreme court of saudi arabia, when he was only 17 years old at the time of the events in 2012, and his alleged crimes were related to his participation in protests by shia opponents. it is clear that it was under torture that this young man confessed to crimes he never committed. it is also clear that his most basic rights to a fair trial have never been respected. the case of this young shiite from saudi arabia, whom i wanted to mention as co-author of this resolution, has led to a broad consensus among the groups, and i welcome that. i thank the colleagues from the other groups with whom we have worked to draft a text which i believe is balanced, a text which is not motivated by the desire to condemn an entire country but by the desire to make it understand the reasons for practices which are no longer acceptable when one claims to belong to the community of nations. the immense financial power of saudi arabia, its ability to absorb a number of our high-tech industrial products, must not justify these deviations.
author. madam president, the destabilising role of saudi arabia is no longer to be demonstrated in the region, as in yemen but also elsewhere, through the financing of terrorist organisations. the horror is also felt at home: political opponents, women, immigrant workers and minorities, especially shiites, are the victims of the worst discrimination and even extortion. this is a medieval country. ali mohammed al-nimr is the sad symbol of this. minor at the time of his arrest, tortured in detention, subjected to a biased trial, now condemned to the height of barbarism. his crime: having the audacity to protest for equal rights, in addition to being his uncle's nephew. it's a crime against the king. they're shiites. to do that, he has to be beheaded and then crucified. those who should be reacting, at best, look the other way. the un is allowing saudi arabia to gain responsibilities on the human rights council, the us and france are vying for the privilege of being its best ally. then no, ali should not die, nor raif badawi be whipped. we must not be silent. the european union must react, demand the pardon of ali and raif.
author. madam president, two wounds are likely to lead a young man of 20 years to death in barbaric and inhumane conditions. these two wounds, we can name them. they're called cynicism and indifference. the cynicism of bloodthirsty dictatorships that allow themselves to sign international conventions on human rights and the rights of the child. it is indifference that, in the name of money, is leading the great democracies to look elsewhere for oil or to sell arms. we must not allow europe, which is not just a market but, first and foremost, the embodiment of values, to see its values sacrificed, beheaded on the altar of a bloody dictatorship. the european union and parliament must tell saudi arabia loud and clear that we do not torture a child, that we do not condemn a child to death. yes, we must ask for clemency, but we must also ask saudi arabia to set up a commission of inquiry against torture to ensure that individual freedoms and human rights are respected in that country.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, like everyone else here, i believe that we cannot be satisfied with formal protests. all european institutions must do everything possible to prevent the beheading and crucifixion of the young ali mohammed al-nimr. after more than 2,200 executions in the last decade, saudi arabia is relegating our common humanity to the dark caverns of another age of barbarism. there is no excuse for silence or complacency. our institutions must, on the one hand, speak out with greater force and take action, including by calling into question certain forms of cooperation and trade agreements. nothing is worth human life. we must also challenge the presidency of this country in the un human rights council. yes, by all means, let us demand that ali mohammed al-nimr and now daoud al-marhoun be spared.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to make payments via the internet or mobile devices safer and cheaper by opening up the market to two new payment service providers (psps) in the eu. while the proposal will provide greater protection for consumers when making online payments overall, there is some uncertainty about the processing of information collected by psps. no details are given on this data. in view of these uncertainties, i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to make online payments more secure within the eu member states. to this end, it is proposed to open the market to two new payment service providers (psps), namely account servicing psps and third party psps. the text as a whole attaches particular importance to consumer protection. however, with regard to third party psps, there are still some uncertainties regarding the confidentiality and exploitation of information collected by the provider. for this reason, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to make online payments safer by establishing data protection and liability rules for all online payment service providers.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this directive, which has been under discussion for a year and a half, is to make payments via the internet or mobile devices safer and cheaper within the union by opening up the market to two new payment service providers (psps), account servicing psps (aspsps) and third party psps (tp-psps). the text imposes transparency and information requirements on these payment service providers. finally, the announced objective is to increase security by extending the so-called strong authentication requirement to online payments. however, the problem remains the legal vacuum surrounding the third party psps. no details are given on the confidentiality and use of information collected by third party psps when collecting consolidated information on the various accounts held by the payer or when initiating payment with the account holder psp. that's why i abstained.
in writing. the aim of this directive, which has been under discussion for a year and a half, is to make payments via the internet or mobile devices safer and cheaper within the union by opening up the market to two new payment service providers (psps), account servicing psps (aspsps) and third party psps (tp-psps). the expected effect is a reduction in transaction costs while increasing the level of security of online payments. the text also imposes transparency and information requirements on psps. the text thus benefits consumers as a whole. however, this directive creates third party payment service providers, which will be able to initiate payments at the request of the payer without holding the funds concerned. furthermore, the problem remains the legal vacuum surrounding third party psps. no details are given on the confidentiality and use of the information collected. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this proposal is to make online payments in the european union more secure and less costly for customers. the report also calls for the introduction of a european standardisation body to ensure that the european union's standards are complied with. they will be responsible for making payments at the request of customers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic money, which is a key element of the eu's financial services. consumers are protected in the event of theft, loss or misappropriation of the payment instrument within 8 weeks of the transaction. however, the legal vacuum surrounding the activity of the psps, especially on the exploitation of the data collected, leaves me skeptical. these providers will have at their disposal the means of authenticating customers, which undermines their confidentiality. if the report's objective is to secure online payments, why don't they better regulate the activity of third party psps? i have abstained on this text to denounce this inconsistency.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the payment services directive in the internal market will further de-fragment the european market for payment services. in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market, it is imperative that payments be made as quickly and efficiently as possible. the revised directive will reduce the costs of this fragmentation, estimated at around eur 130 billion per year. payments will be cheaper and more secure. this will also allow for the emergence of new players, which will foster greater innovation capacity, for example for online payments. i voted in favour of this new directive.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to create an integrated payments market across the union, complementing the existing legal framework. these provisions aim to reduce the costs of payment services by encouraging competition in the sector and promoting innovation, including through mobile and online payment methods. supporting these objectives and considering that users' banking data will be better protected during transactions, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on payment services in the internal market. i believe it is important to ensure free competition between all categories of payment service providers. this will increase choice, efficiency, transparency and security of payments.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to make online payments safer and cheaper by opening up the market to payment service providers who can pay without owning the funds, but still have the information on the accounts in question. however, no guarantees are given as to the use of data by third party payment service providers and the protection of personal banking information. this new possibility, as interesting as it may be, may leave a significant legal gap. it is not conceivable to open such a loophole in the exploitation of personal data. as a supporter of freedom of enterprise and innovation, i remain convinced that the issue of personal data protection is one that cannot be ignored by a politician. the european union cannot once again implement new mechanisms at the discretion of the market without examining the problems that may arise. that's why i opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because there is a legal vacuum with regard to third countries and the security of payments is not really guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to secure online payments made within the member states. in this context, it is proposed to open the market to two new payment service providers (psps), namely account servicing psps and third party psps. the text as a whole is very much concerned with consumer protection. however, with regard to third party psps, some provisions remain unclear, particularly as regards confidentiality and the use of information collected by the provider. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague antonio tajani on payment services. the vote validates the agreement reached with the european commission and the council, which allows for increased security of transactions and reduced costs. payment service providers will be required to adopt secure authentication technologies, ensure that personal data is passed through secure channels and that it is only shared with the user's consent and in the smallest possible way. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which makes it possible to adapt consumer payments to new forms of payment (mobile, electronic). the aim of the text is to promote the efficiency of the payment system as a whole and to offer consumers greater choice, while ensuring data and payment protection and imposing the obligation to inform consumers of their rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market. in recent years, the european payments market has undergone major and profound technical changes. in order to support growth in europe, it is necessary to accompany these technical innovations by offering new payment services adapted to current needs. i therefore supported this proposal for a directive to enable citizens, consumers, entrepreneurs and traders to benefit from a wider range of payment services, the security and transparency of which will be enhanced.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, online payments have undergone profound changes. until recently, they were exclusively organised by banking operators. now other players are taking advantage of the emergence of new payment techniques to penetrate the market. this is why the european legislator has committed itself to giving this development a legal scope. the new payment services directive (psd2), on which parliament delivered its opinion at the last plenary session, is precisely intended to regulate these new practices, which have been adopted by many european companies. i therefore voted for the tajani report to give a strong support to these regulatory efforts. i am convinced that legislation is needed in this area, but i want to remain vigilant: the new provisions must at all times protect european citizens, and in particular their personal data. innovation can and must contribute to the well-being of our societies, but to do so it must be accompanied by strong safeguards in the public interest.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to repeal the current payment services directive (psd). the aim is to extend the scope of this directive in order to improve the functioning of the internal market for payment services. with the emergence of new types of payment services and the rapid growth of electronic and mobile payments, the retail payments market has experienced significant technical innovations that are challenging the current legislative framework. by facilitating transactions within the union, the commission hopes to foster growth. low consumption has little to do with means of payment. it is more a question of increasing the income available to individuals. the text nevertheless proposes to strengthen control of payment institutions in order to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. particular attention shall also be paid to the shareholders of payment institutions. to encourage this, i vote for but not enthusiastically.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to make online payments more secure within the eu member states. to this end, it is proposed to open the market to two new payment service providers (psps), namely account servicing psps and third party psps. the text as a whole attaches particular importance to consumer protection. however, with regard to third party psps, there are still some uncertainties regarding the confidentiality and exploitation of information collected by the provider. for this reason, i abstained.
in writing. the vote aims to adopt a new payment services directive to open up the market to new players. the expected effect is a reduction in transaction costs coupled with an increase in the level of security of online payments. however, this directive creates a new category of third party payment service providers, which will be able to initiate payments at the request of the payer without holding the funds concerned. uncertainty remains about the processing of information by these new actors. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the vote aims to adopt a new payment services directive to open up the market to new players. the expected effect is a reduction in transaction costs coupled with an increase in the level of security of online payments. however, this directive creates a new category of third party payment service providers, which will be able to initiate payments at the request of the payer without holding the funds concerned. uncertainty remains about the processing of information by these new actors. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the text on the revision of the payment services directive in the internal market. i voted in favour of this report because it helps to make payment services in the union more efficient and simplifies existing procedures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive on payment services, which aims to reduce costs, make payments more secure, encourage new players to enter the market and stimulate new innovative methods of online payment. the european payment services market is fragmented and costs €130 billion a year, which may harm europe's competitiveness in the long term. it is therefore urgent and necessary to update the european rules on the market for mobile and online payment services. thus, fees charged for payment instruments, such as bank cards, will be prohibited. since 34% of european citizens shop online, this proposal for a directive is essential for securing payments.
in writing. ‒ when the economic crisis hit in 2008, many spanish individuals found themselves unable to repay their loans. this resulted in the eviction of many financially strapped borrowers. however, many rightly consider themselves to be harmed (lack of information, failure of banks to check the creditworthiness of customers, abusive practices, etc.). 700 000 spanish citizens have thus denounced this state of affairs. with my colleagues from the national front, we are opposed to the idea of citizens being forced to pay for the mistakes of governments and banks. that is why i voted for this oral question.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that spanish banks have engaged in unfair practices vis-à-vis their customers. with the economic crisis hitting spain hard, borrowers were unable to pay their loans and were evicted from their homes - the very mortgage that guaranteed their loans. what is required by this text is certainly akin to a certain interference by the commission in a sovereign state. but the pressure on spain remains limited, and this pressure should be in the interests of consumers while limiting bank abuse. that is why i supported this text.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution entitled 'legislation on mortgages and risky financial instruments in the european union: the case of spain' is to seek clarification on the banking reforms carried out by the spanish government. the economic crisis led to many foreclosures on property from borrowers who could no longer pay. similarly, 700 000 spanish citizens believe they have been victims of fraud by their banks and this shows that spanish legislation does not protect borrowers. the text asks for clarification on the reforms carried out by the government, asks whether european reforms of legislation will be necessary and asks the commission how it intends to react to the case c-415/11 aziz concerning abusive clauses in consumer contracts. if this text can be regarded as a form of interference, it appears to be limited; the commission has also proposed that the text be amended to take account of the interests of consumers and to limit the abuse of the banks. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ before the financial crisis, many spaniards took out variable rate loans by mortgaging their property. faced with skyrocketing interest rates during the financial crisis, some of them were unable to repay these loans and were evicted from their own homes. they now complain that they were not informed enough about the dangers of these financial products. the number of cases in which abusive clauses have been invalidated shows that spanish legislation has been inadequate in this respect. the purpose of the text is to determine whether the commission can combat the abusive practices and the glaring lack of information in credit agreements suffered by borrowers in spain. although we oppose any interference by the european commission in the national affairs of the member states, we consider that this is in the interests of millions of europeans who are not sufficiently protected from the greed of financial institutions that are ready to do anything to increase the profitability of their activities. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ spanish civil society is strongly opposed to banking legislation, which offers little protection to borrowers. the economic crisis led to many foreclosures by borrowers who were no longer able to pay, leading to an increasing number of petitions submitted to parliament. this oral question asks for details of the reforms carried out by the spanish government and of the application of european case law and the planned reforms. i therefore voted in favour of this question.
in writing. ‒ this resolution denounces the abusive clauses in mortgage loan contracts which have led to hundreds of thousands of evictions in spain. banking laws and practices on mortgages vary across the union, which means that consumer protection and repayment conditions vary from one member state to another. in this resolution we call on the european commission to monitor better the implementation of directive 93/13/eec by the member states, which aims to protect citizens from this type of clause. we also call on the member states and the european commission to initiate a number of reforms to prevent this problem from recurring. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is aimed at combating fraudulent practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is in favour of better control of the activities of banks.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the legislation on mortgages and risky financial instruments in the union was called for by far-left groups and its purpose is to denounce the spanish mortgage legislation, by promoting the right to pay a debt or a tax obligation by the transfer of property. with just a few months to go until the spanish general elections in december 2015, this is clearly a form of instrumentalisation of the european parliament for electoral purposes. the european parliament is not a place for settling accounts but an assembly which strives to improve the living conditions of european citizens and the situation of the member states, while strictly respecting their sovereignty. this resolution violates this principle by giving a parliamentary committee, in this case the committee on petitions, the power to assess the conformity of national legal provisions with european law. no provision of the treaties or of the rules of procedure of the european parliament provides for such a competence. this resolution is unacceptable in form and substance, and that is why i am opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ in 2008, with the economic crisis, many spanish citizens found themselves unable to repay their loans. this has led to the eviction of many borrowers who were stuck with their repayment terms. however, many rightly consider themselves to be harmed (lack of information, failure of banks to check the creditworthiness of customers, abusive practices, etc.). 700 000 spanish citizens have denounced this unacceptable state of affairs. we believe that citizens should not have to take on the amateurism of governments and the mistakes of banks. i voted for this oral question.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the legislation on mortgages and risk finance in spain, because the member states' compliance with eu law is not a matter for parliament, which therefore raises a separation of powers problem. the report was also strongly influenced by the spanish far-left, which is seeking to use the european parliament as a tool in the run-up to the december general elections in spain. the resolution was adopted, and i regret that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text on mortgages in spain because of a question of jurisdiction. it is up to the european commission to assess whether a national text is in conformity with eu law or, ultimately, to the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. - dominique martin voted for this proposal. spain is characterised by a high number of foreclosures on property held by borrowers who are unable to repay, and this is facilitated by its banking legislation which is clearly unfair to customers. the proposal suggests asking for clarification on the reforms carried out by the spanish government and on the application of european case law. this harmonisation, although european, is in the interests of consumers and would limit bank abuse.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the very large number of petitions received by the european parliament on this subject, our assembly has taken a decision on the issue of risky financial instruments in spain, which have led to massive evictions. in the first quarter of 2015, almost 20,000 spanish tenants were evicted, for a total of 400,000 evictions since 2008. in many cases, the banks involved did not adequately inform consumers of the extent of the financial risks they were exposed to. an estimated 700 000 spanish citizens have been victims of financial fraud linked to the sale of risky instruments. in view of this situation and the petitions that have come to our attention, parliament has finally agreed on a number of recommendations which it considers appropriate. it called on financial institutions to put an end to abusive practices in the field of mortgage lending and to give priority to debt restructuring over evictions. it also called on the european banking authority and the ecb to take further steps to oblige banks to separate their stock exchange activities from their deposit activities. i'm voting for it, of course.
in writing. ‒ more than 700 000 spanish citizens believe they have been victims of financial fraud involving 'preferences' (fraudulent sale of risky financial instruments by spanish banks). since 2012, 21 petitions alleging abuses in the sale of financial instruments to savings bank customers in spain have been registered as admissible in the european parliament. they call on the european union to encourage the spanish authorities to investigate the matter and to compensate the customers affected. the resolution calls on the commission to follow up complaints received and to carry out the necessary investigations. it also called on the commission to submit a legislative proposal on household insolvency and the granting of a second chance to individuals and households. it also urges the spanish government to develop a solution to "substantially reduce the intolerable number of evictions". i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ when the economic crisis hit in 2008, many spanish individuals found themselves unable to repay their loans. this resulted in the expulsion of many borrowers who had been stranded. however, many rightly consider themselves to be harmed (lack of information, failure of banks to check the creditworthiness of customers, abusive practices, etc.). 700 000 spanish citizens have denounced this state of affairs. at the national front, we believe that citizens should not have to pay for the mistakes of governments and banks. so i voted yes.
in writing. the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to ask for clarification on the banking reforms carried out by the spanish government. the spanish legislation provides little protection for borrowers, as was shown by the many property seizures that occurred after the crisis, and by the large number of spaniards who consider themselves victims of fraud by their banks. if this text can be regarded as a form of interference, it appears to be limited, since it is only a question of asking for clarification on the situation of banks in spain and of putting an end to unfair practices towards consumers. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to ask for clarification on the banking reforms carried out by the spanish government. the spanish legislation provides little protection for borrowers, as was shown by the many property seizures that occurred after the crisis, and by the large number of spaniards who consider themselves victims of fraud by their banks. if this text can be regarded as a form of interference, it appears to be limited, since it is only a question of asking for clarification on the situation of banks in spain and of putting an end to unfair practices towards consumers. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ following the request received by the european parliament's committee on petitions (peti) concerning the non-compliance of national authorities with the legislation on mortgages and risk financial instruments in the union, parliament adopted a motion for a resolution calling on the spanish authorities to comply with european legislation. i spoke against this text because i believe that this request does not fall within the competence of the parliament's committee on petitions. it is up to the european commission, and ultimately to the court of justice of the european union, to ensure that spanish legislation is in conformity with european legislation.
in writing. ‒ the background to the question is interesting, as spanish banks have indeed resorted to unfair practices vis-à-vis their customers by granting toxic or variable rate loans. it is true that the harmonization of rules in this area is tantamount to a certain interference by the commission in a sovereign state. however, this pressure is limited, is in the interests of consumers and would limit bank abuse. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ financial speculation encouraged by a "all owners" policy coupled with tax breaks and interest rates that encourage long-term debt for spanish households has led thousands of people to the streets after the speculative bubble burst. since 2008, nearly 400,000 evictions have already taken place, and this continues. however, international and european courts, including the court of justice of the european union (cjeu), have declared these expulsions illegal. all the property seizures carried out during that period should therefore have been declared illegal and the corresponding proceedings reopened. the spanish government has ignored all the reminders of order. this resolution, supported by the gue/ngl, is a response to numerous petitions lodged with the european parliament. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. i voted for it, even though this resolution is primarily declarative. it is in the right direction in calling for additional protection for the most vulnerable households.
in writing. ‒ with my colleagues from the national front, we are not against the death penalty as long as it is carried out within a strictly defined legal framework that ensures respect for the rights of the defence and fair trials. the text submitted to the european parliament for its vote takes a radically different view. it is intended to prevent any member state from reintroducing the death penalty, to put pressure on belarus - the last european country to still practice it - to restrict trade with countries that have not yet removed it from their legislation, etc. the proposal is therefore intended to interfere in the internal affairs of the states. the european union's moralising discourse on the death penalty is completely misplaced. as is often the case, the europeanist elites want to shape the world to their liking and impose their vision on all those who do not share it by questionable means and with great disrespect for independent states and their people. for these reasons i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which seeks to condemn the use of the death penalty and to support the decree of a moratorium with a view to its abolition.
in writing. - interference, more interference, more interference. instead of trying to impose its morality on the world at all costs, while sparing allies such as qatar and saudi arabia, the european union would do better to look first at the real democratic deficit of its technocratic institutions.
in writing. this eu resolution on the death penalty allows it to interfere again in the politics of nation states in order to give itself a good conscience while continuing to engage in partnerships with middle eastern countries such as saudi arabia or qatar, which do not hesitate to practice it, as we have seen recently with the tragic case of ali mohammed al-nimr. the resolution calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated. however, amendment 9 - which i supported - proposes to abolish the death penalty in states that still criminalize homosexuality, and it is not normal that in our time such a case should still exist. but this does not seem to bother our governments, who do not hesitate to make peace with states using this motive... nevertheless, i think that a debate can be opened on the death penalty as a punishment for certain crimes and it is not for the european union to dictate the policies of the states in this matter. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ 2,466 people were sentenced to death in 2014, an increase of 23% compared to 2013. the rapporteur is outraged by the stoning of hundreds of women, the death sentences of homosexuals and mentally ill people in arab countries which apply sharia law. the report also calls for the death penalty to be abolished for drug-related offences. we have always fought against the barbarity of states that stone people and execute people for their sexual orientation. we have always fought alongside ethnic minorities who suffer persecution under totalitarian regimes. however, we are firmly opposed to the worldwide abolition of the death penalty, because we consider that it is not contrary to human rights when applied to exceptionally serious crimes. finally, we are against the tightening of export controls on products used for capital punishment. in the past, this has resulted in only ineffective lethal injections, as in the united states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. "no one shall be sentenced to the death penalty or executed". this is the second article of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the death penalty is abolished in all the member states of the european union. this is also a prerequisite for any country wishing to join the union. finally, it is a fundamental value which the union must export to the whole world. i am strongly opposed to the death penalty. the case of ali mohammed al-nimr is a recent and most shocking example. this young man was sentenced to be beheaded and then crucified for taking part in the arab spring protests in saudi arabia. he was sentenced to death for expressing his opinion. we must fight for the abolition of the death penalty in the world. this is one of the fundamental missions of the european union in the field of human rights. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is in the context of the 13th world day against the death penalty on 10 october, which this year is devoted to death sentences for drug-related offences. while the 2013 revised eu guidelines on the death penalty clearly state that the death penalty should not be applied for drug-related offences, this phenomenon still exists. we support this resolution and call on the member states and the commission to take the necessary measures to put a stop to this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ i must say that this resolution gives me a feeling of unease, since it relativises or mixes everything. it calls for the total abolition of the death penalty worldwide. it does so in the name of respect, in particular, for human dignity. the criminal's, of course. for the terrorists? please! did the terrorists who killed in paris in january get a break? do they have any indulgence, those who send little girls to be blown up in the middle of the markets in africa? no death penalty for, and i quote, "drug offences" in the name of absurd international texts. as if large-scale drug trafficking, often combined with other forms of heinous trafficking, were a "crime"! so, for the traffickers? please! and also for serial killers, the serial killers! in many cases, the first denial of dignity, the first denial of humanity, the first act of hatred, is the criminal who commits them! it is to the victims, to those whose lives have been interrupted or ruined, that justice and respect must be given first and foremost. and sometimes this is by the death sentence of their tormentors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. aged just 17 when he was arrested, accused of participating in the anti-government movement, the young ali al-nimr was sentenced to death by crucifixion and then beheading. these totalitarian and arbitrary judgments are clearly in violation of international law and the moral principles that france and the european union hold dear. i therefore strongly condemn these particularly barbaric acts of torture and call on france and the international community to react swiftly and forcefully.
in writing. ‒ today, more than 106 un member states have abolished the death penalty or no longer practice it, despite different legal systems, traditions, cultures and religious backgrounds. i welcome this coming together of many states, but i do not forget that to date 193 states are members of the organisation and that among these countries, major democracies continue to use the death penalty. that is why i supported this resolution, which calls for a moratorium on the death penalty. i know that this debate is not new and that things are slowly changing, but i remain convinced that the role of the european union is to keep the debate open and to reaffirm its commitment to humanist values which are incompatible with this practice.
in writing. ‒ with my colleagues from the national front, we are not against the death penalty if it is practiced within a strictly defined legal framework that ensures respect for the rights of the defence and fair trials. the text submitted to the european parliament for its vote takes a radically different view. it is intended to prevent any member state from reintroducing the death penalty, to put pressure on belarus - the last european country to practice it - to restrict trade with countries that have not yet removed it from their legislation, etc. the proposal is therefore intended to interfere in the internal affairs of the states. the european union's moralising discourse on the death penalty is completely misplaced. as is often the case, the pro-european elites want to shape the world to their liking and impose their vision on all those who do not share it by questionable means and with no respect for the independence of states and the will of their people. for these reasons i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the death penalty, which recalls the european union's commitment to the abolition of the death penalty and takes stock of the death sentences handed down and carried out worldwide. the text also stresses the ineffectiveness of these sentences in combating the crimes to which they refer, and the exploitation of the death penalty for discriminatory or political purposes in certain countries, and welcomes the abolition of the death penalty in a number of countries. this resolution was adopted by a very large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the death penalty is still used in some countries around the world. the european parliament must regularly remind that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the strengthening of human dignity and that the objective remains total abolition at the global level.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution by several parliamentary groups on the death penalty. we have once again condemned the use of the death penalty in all its forms, some of which are more inhuman than others, and in particular the use of stoning. we therefore call for a global moratorium on the death penalty and urge the governments of countries still practising it to take the necessary steps to abolish it in the name of respect for life and human dignity.
in writing. ‒ 10 october is the european and international day against the death penalty. this year's day is dedicated to the death penalty applied in drug trafficking cases. the resolution therefore lists the countries that practice the death penalty, not to mention the five most active in this field: iran, saudi arabia, iraq, china and the united states. the resolution reiterates the eu's position in favour of the abolition of the death penalty and expresses concern at the export of european products which may be used for torture or execution. unfortunately, the text does not go any further. the union cannot contemplate anything that goes against the united states, even if it hates china and iran. i am voting for the abolitionist aspects of this text, but i am also disappointed that it lacks ambition in this area.
in writing. this joint motion for a resolution (epp/s&d/alde/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/epp/d/e/d/epp/de) concerns the universal condemnation of the use of the death penalty and supports the immediate establishment of a moratorium with a view to its abolition in the near future. in my view, the use of the death penalty should be a matter for the states alone, whether they are members of the european union or not, according to conceptions determined by the peoples and transcribed into their respective legislative systems, and not according to international standards and the moral imperialism of the european union. with the exception of the paragraph condemning the revolting use of the death penalty for political or moral crimes, as in the case of muslim countries applying it for the 'crimes' of homosexuality, adultery or apostasy, i voted against this text which also envisages limiting our cooperation with states implementing it in the context of their drug policy, such as singapore or indonesia.
in writing. ‒ this joint motion for a resolution epp s&d alde ecr greens gue deals with the universal condemnation of the use of the death penalty and supports the immediate establishment of a moratorium with a view to its abolition in the near future. in my view, the use of the death penalty should be a matter for the states alone, whether they are members of the european union or not, according to conceptions determined by the peoples and transcribed into their respective legislative systems, and not according to international standards and the moral imperialism of the european union. with the exception of the paragraph condemning the revolting use of the death penalty for political or moral crimes, as in the case of muslim countries applying it for the 'crimes' of homosexuality, adultery or apostasy, i voted against this text which also envisages limiting our cooperation with states implementing it in the context of their drug policy, such as singapore or indonesia.
in writing. ‒ while the member states of the union have abolished the death penalty, this practice is still used by some states in the world. in 2014, nearly 240 people were still on death row in 55 different countries. and 607 people were executed in 2014. these numbers are staggering. i supported the european parliament's resolution condemning the unilateral and international practice of the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ on the eve of the 13th world day against the death penalty, i voted in favour of this resolution, which reaffirms the european union's commitment to this struggle. the 13th world day of drugs and drug addiction focuses on the increase in the number of death sentences for drug-related offences. it is important to remember, as the resolution emphasizes, that the death penalty does not prevent drug trafficking or prevent anyone from falling into drug addiction. the death penalty remains incompatible with the values of human dignity, freedom, democracy and fairness upheld by the european union. the resolution also calls for a global moratorium on the death penalty as a first step towards its abolition.
in writing. - five years ago, hungary was faced with the rupture of a waste tank, which had dramatic consequences. the red sludge produced during the manufacture of alumina and aluminium had caused the death of ten people. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the sad anniversary of this event is a good pretext for increasing the powers of the union at the expense of its member states, for calling for 'more and more europe'. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ following the so-called red mud disaster on 4 october 2010, i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to draw lessons from it to prevent it from happening again in the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is based on the wishful thinking of the eurocrats, who repeat the same motto as a litany: 'more and more europe', that is to say, to further strengthen the powers and competences of the commission to the detriment of the member states.
in writing. on 4 october 2010, a waste tank in hungary burst, causing considerable pollution and killing ten people. it was red sludge, produced during the manufacture of alumina and aluminium. this motion for a resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster, five years after the accident in hungary, should make it possible to draw up a legislative framework to prevent these disasters, but this naturally implies greater european union involvement. the positive aspect, which is the call for member states to strengthen their national environmental inspection bodies, is unfortunately drowned out by the calls for more and more europe. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october 2010, a reservoir of red sludge from the aluminium industry was broken. the accident had caused an ecological disaster and caused the death of 10 people. it is in this context that this motion for a resolution attempts to provide solutions to improve the legislative framework so that such a tragedy does not happen again. the text calls on the eu member states to strengthen their environmental legislation, in particular through the control bodies, but above all it proposes to give more power to the european institutions. this tragic event is therefore being used by the europeanists to give the commission additional powers. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october 2010, the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary led to the release of nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, which caused flooding in several villages, resulted in the death of ten people, injured nearly 150 and polluted large areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites. the accident has highlighted the poor implementation and shortcomings of european legislation. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the union's financial instruments are used effectively. we also call on the member states and the european commission to ensure better enforcement of european legislation and to consider additional measures to eliminate pollution from mining activities in the future. i voted in favour of the resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. ‒ in october 2010, 700,000 m3 of corrosive sludge spilled after the tank of an aluminium plant in hungary burst, west of budapest, killing 10 people and burning 150. this resolution recalls our commitments made in the wake of this industrial disaster. we are thus paying tribute to the victims of this tragic event while stepping up our efforts to regulate aluminium manufacturing and the environmentally sound management of red mud. more generally, this resolution calls for better management of our hazardous waste. i have reserved a paragraph on the drafting of a legislative proposal on access to justice in environmental matters by the end of 2016. i am in favour of access to environmental justice, but such a proposal is not feasible before the end of 2016. it is worth thinking about and working on so that its development and application are perfect. this resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster, five years after the accident, is very important anyway, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this debate because it is a veiled call, once again, for more european federalism.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october 2010, the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary led to the release of nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, caused flooding in several villages, killed ten people, injured nearly 150 and polluted large areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites. this is the worst industrial disaster in hungary in decades. as we mark the fifth anniversary of this tragic accident, it is important to recall how responsible management of industrial sites and better disaster prevention are essential to preventing such accidents from happening again. that is why i did not hesitate to support this resolution, which reminds us of our responsibility as legislators in ecological and environmental matters.
in writing. ‒ five years ago, hungary was facing the dramatic consequences of a ruptured waste tank. red mud from alumina and aluminum had caused the death of ten people. today, parliament was considering a legislative framework to prevent such a disaster. more concretely, this issue raises the need for a stronger grip of public authorities at union level. the community administration is using this sad anniversary as a pretext to tighten the screws on its control. although article 15 calls on 'member states to strengthen their national environmental inspection bodies', this possibility was immediately mired in a torrent of calls for strengthening at community level. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster in hungary five years ago. the text takes stock of the consequences of this environmental disaster and the shortcomings in the implementation of european standards in this field and raises a number of concerns about the evolution of the level of control in europe of installations similar to those where the accident occurred. the text also makes a number of recommendations to the european commission and the member states to ensure that such a disaster does not happen again. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this disaster, which left 10 dead and 150 injured due to the rupture of a waste tank in hungary, must not happen again. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution to intensify checks and to strengthen prevention in order to avoid any further incidents.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster, five years after the accident in hungary. on 4 october 2010, a waste tank in hungary ruptured, causing considerable pollution and resulting in the deaths of ten people. the question is how a better legal framework will prevent such disasters in the future. the question strongly suggests the need for a stronger grip of public authorities at community level. the wishes are one after the other and they are always for 'more europe'. the only point to be made is article 15, which directly calls on 'the member states to strengthen their national environmental inspection bodies'. this positive aspect is, however, drowned out by the systematic calls for strengthening the community level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. this disaster had caused the death of ten people and caused considerable pollution in hungary. we recognize the need to ensure that such a disaster does not happen again, but the content of this proposal is inappropriate: it consists of a long string of wishful thinking and calls, of course, for more europe. while we are in favour of strengthening national environmental inspection bodies, we cannot support this empty shell.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october 2010, the collapse of a waste tank in hungary released nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud containing aluminium, which flooded several villages, killed ten people, injured nearly 150 and polluted large areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites. five years later, the european parliament seized the opportunity to call for better prevention of industrial disasters, including those linked to mining waste and waste in general. it called on all member states with red mud pools to examine whether it had been correctly classified as hazardous and to revise all permits based on erroneous classifications. the resolution also calls for legislation on access to justice in environmental matters, the establishment of a 'european system for risk-sharing in the event of industrial plant disasters' and better application of the polluter-pays principle. it called for greater emphasis on research and for sufficient resources to be provided in the member states to inspect industrial sites. although the industry has sought to minimize its costs in terms of site security by influencing right-wing mps, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ five years ago, hungary was facing the dramatic consequences of a ruptured waste tank. red mud, produced during the manufacture of alumina and aluminum, had caused the death of ten people. today, parliament was considering a legislative framework to prevent such a disaster. more concretely, this issue raises the need for a stronger grip of public authorities at union level. the community administration is using this sad anniversary as a pretext to tighten the screws on its control. although article 15 calls on 'member states to strengthen their national environmental inspection bodies', this possibility was immediately mired in a torrent of calls for strengthening at community level. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the motion for a resolution on the evaluation of the lessons learned from the 2010 red mud disaster in hungary comes as part of the macabre 'anniversary' of the toxic flooding in veszprém county. the only basis for the various measures being the publicity provided by this date, they inevitably call for an increase in the commission's powers in environmental matters and a strengthening of the european legislative arsenal under the old custom of 'more europe'. the strengthening of the community level and the dispossession of french sovereignty which this proposal entailed led me to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, a ruptured waste tank in hungary led to the release of nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud. the mud flooded several villages, killing 10 people and injuring 150. they have caused extensive damage and pollution to large areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites. i voted in favour of this resolution which pays tribute to the victims and calls on the european union to draw lessons from this disaster. in particular, member states are asked to take account of the classification of red sludge as hazardous waste within the meaning of directive 91/689/eec and to monitor existing basins. i believe it is important to set safety requirements for the management of waste from the extractive industry, to ensure its safety. it should be remembered, however, that the transposition of the environmental liability directive has not resulted in equal responsibilities in all member states. care should therefore be taken not to impose additional administrative and financial burdens on companies located in countries where strict standards are already applied.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on the evaluation of the lessons learned from the 2010 red mud disaster in hungary comes as part of the macabre 'anniversary' of the toxic flooding in veszprém county. the only basis for the various measures being the publicity provided by this date, they inevitably call for an increase in the commission's powers in environmental matters and a strengthening of the european legislative arsenal under the old custom of 'more europe'. the strengthening of the community level and the dispossession of french sovereignty which this proposal entailed led me to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october 2010, a waste tank in hungary burst and over one million cubic metres of red mud was spilled, causing damage to the environment and the health of the surrounding population. this catastrophic incident caused the death of ten people and heavily polluted the surrounding area. the european parliament wanted to stress the importance of this disaster and the need to ensure control of waste tanks. the commission has been very careful to ensure that the european parliament is not involved in the negotiations. the aim of this text is to remind member states to learn from this disaster and to monitor their tanks to ensure compliance with european legislation.
in writing. ‒ the resolution seeks to demonstrate that no serious lessons have been drawn from this disaster. again, as is too often the case in industrial accidents, the repair and compensation are paid for by public money and not by the industrialists responsible for the disaster. this is why the european parliament has asked the european commission to propose new harmonised rules requiring manufacturers to provide sufficient financial security to ensure that the polluter pays principle can be fully applied. the commission should also put in place inspection requirements which could be coordinated at european level to avoid conflicts of national interests. all member states have a duty, even in times of austerity, to properly finance the authorities responsible for industrial inspections in order to avoid an accident and to enforce the rules in force. the same applies to the bodies responsible for measuring the toxicity of industrial waste and the solutions for its treatment.
in writing. ‒ this report is an advocate of the fight against the subjugation of women in developing countries: the fight against female genital mutilation, forced marriage, equal treatment and women's empowerment are the topics covered in this text. i have, however, abstained on this report because some of the recommendations are at odds with the lifestyles of some traditional societies. in addition, very expensive measures, such as the establishment of state statistics, are in my view ineffective.
in writing. - as is often the case with these kinds of questions, the motion for a resolution we had to vote on is a catch-all that mixes good and bad measures. the report rightly denounces the exclusion and abuse of women in several countries. however, this is accompanied by measures deriving from a radical feminist ideology, promoting equality in everything and for everything without ever taking into account the complementarity and differences between the sexes. since most of the amendments in favour of lgbti communitarianism and abortion were rejected, i did not vote against the text, but i abstained.
in writing. ‒ today, despite an action plan adopted in 2006, the gender pay gap persists and is even widening. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission to propose new legislation providing for more effective means of monitoring the implementation and application of this action plan in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report which, despite some positive points, is mainly intended to strengthen the sacred and holy parity at all costs, in a purely ideological way, without the slightest concern for pragmatism.
in writing. the proposal should encourage a 'change of direction for the second action plan on gender equality' and then 'data collection and objectives' and finally develop 'the main aspects of the new action plan on gender equality'. if i want to move towards greater equality between men and women in employment and pay, for example, or if i condemn violence against women, i think this report is just another declaration of good intentions. this report combines external policy in this area, and in particular equality actions in the context of assistance to migrants, with the union's internal policy, since it encourages the member states to intervene to promote gender equality through clear funding but also through specific indicators (they encourage the follow-up of recommendations without really giving any clues ...). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. so i refrained.
in writing. - this report is a statement on behalf of women who are victims of persecution around the world. one in three women will be physically or sexually abused in her lifetime. every year, 14 million women are forced into marriage. 62 million girls worldwide are out of school. this is why the european union must promote equal treatment between women and men and the empowerment of women. we are fully aware of the various forms of abuse suffered by women, especially in the arab countries where sharia law is applied, but we are opposed to equality between women and men. we are also against the introduction of useless and costly statistics, which will ensure strict parity in all areas and encourage the introduction of positive discrimination. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation is necessary to improve its effectiveness and impact in developing countries. the european strategy in this area must be better adapted to the realities on the ground. equality between men and women must be a principle that is ingrained in the minds of young people from an early age. so it is through education that we will achieve this goal. within the union, much remains to be done in this area, particularly in the area of equal pay. our aim must be to promote equality between men and women within and outside our borders. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the renewal of the european union action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation. a second action plan on gender equality needs to be launched today to put in place concrete measures to eradicate all discrimination against women. by voting for this motion for a resolution, we are recalling the fundamental role of education, business and the european union in the emancipation of women.
in writing. i abstained on this debate because it has too many supporters of gender theory.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution renewing the european action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation, as it is imperative that gender equality is part of european development policy. women and girls are still subject to discrimination in employment and education, and to physical and/or psychological violence, which is unacceptable. the 2016-2020 action plan should enable the elimination of all forms of violence and discrimination against women and girls and the achievement of concrete results in the union's partner countries, through a comprehensive approach, mobilising more resources and efforts. it should be remembered that equality between women and men is one of the european union's core values and therefore all aspects of its external policy must be in line with it. this resolution calls on the commission and the european external action service to promote this equality in their policies and to assess it in their annual reports. the text also stresses the need to involve men in this process and to promote a special approach for young women, migrants, lgbti, disabled and hiv positive, which should be the aim of such an ambitious policy.
in writing. ‒ the report denounces, which is unfortunately still to be deplored in the 21st century, the exclusion and abuse of women in several countries of the world. but unfortunately this report is being used as a pretext for a new ideological hook that has nothing to do with the sad subject. the text is accompanied by measures deriving from a radical feminist ideology, promoting equality in everything and for everything without ever taking into account the complementarity and differences between the sexes. it's all the more inappropriate to use these horrific cases to push other ideas... since most of the lgbt and pro-abortion amendments were rejected, i did not vote against the text, but i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation. the text welcomes this renewal and calls for the issue of gender equality to be given a greater prominence in development cooperation, as women are more often affected by discrimination in developing countries. the resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because the european union must promote gender equality and the empowerment of women in its development cooperation policies. the results of the latest action plan are not satisfactory. it was therefore necessary to renew this action plan to intensify efforts and resources to eliminate all forms of violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on the renewal of the european union action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation. this report rightly defends the fight against female genital mutilation and the subjugation of women worldwide. however, it pushes too far the desire for pure and perfect parity even in the establishment of statistics in the member states, which are both useless and costly. furthermore, some of the recommendations are at odds with the lifestyles of some traditional societies.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin abstained on this report. this text, which was originally laudable, presents the conclusions of the european union's evaluation of gender equality and women's empowerment (gewe) and recalls the obvious and shameful facts, such as the fact that one in three women is likely to experience physical and sexual violence, and that 14 million girls are forced into marriage every year. although commendable, this text is perverted and misused by the multiple pro-lgbti amendments.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament gives its recommendations to the commission for the new eu plan 2016-2020 on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation. based on its assessment of the previous plan, it calls for a 'radical change of direction': more human and financial resources to guarantee the physical and psychological integrity of women and girls, promote women's economic rights and strengthen their participation in society. the resolution stresses girls' education and universal access to health care and coverage, including sexual and reproductive rights, as means of their empowerment. i note key passages on the needs of migrant women and the specific obstacles faced by women in rural areas. i regret the lack of criticism of the union's foreign and trade policy, which is plundering these developing countries and is in fact contributing to the obstacles to women's emancipation. i am voting for it, however, in order to support the political and financial efforts required.
in writing. ‒ as is often the case with these questions, this report is a catch-all that mixes good and bad measures. the report rightly denounces the exclusion and abuse of women in several countries. however, this is accompanied by measures deriving from a radical feminist ideology, promoting equality in everything and for everything without ever taking into account the complementarity and differences between the sexes. some of the recommendations are at odds with the lifestyles of some traditional societies. i abstained.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the renewal of the european union action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation is a catalogue of wishes and amendments that undermine national sovereignty: the european parliament has also called for the adoption of a new law on the protection of the rights of women and the protection of the rights of men and women against discrimination, and for the adoption of a new law on the protection of women against discrimination. in the interests of leaving it to the nations and peoples to determine their own way of life - with the obvious exclusion of physical violence - i therefore feel obliged to overlook the few positive points in this resolution and to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the empowerment of women in development cooperation. the treaty on european union states that equality between men and women is one of the main european values, and i support this with consistency and determination. in the cooperation programmes it funds, europe must promote this principle. i particularly agree with this text which considers that gender-based violence is a serious violation of human rights and cannot be justified in any way by religion, culture or tradition. i would add that we must remain vigilant so that women's rights do not decline in europe too. no country in the world has yet fully closed the gender gap, whether in developing or developed countries. the fight for women's rights is therefore a permanent struggle which must involve all of us.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the renewal of the european union action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development cooperation is a catalogue of wishes and amendments that undermine national sovereignty: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. in the interests of leaving it to the nations and peoples to determine their own way of life - with the obvious exclusion of physical violence - i therefore feel obliged to overlook the few positive points in this resolution and to abstain.
in writing. ‒ we have endorsed the renewal of this action plan because the eu must remain a power that defends gender equality and women's empowerment in our foreign policy, and in particular our development policy. i have supported the paragraphs giving women full control over their bodies, especially in areas of armed conflict or in areas of lawlessness. european humanitarian aid must not be conditional, it must be universal. since the weil act, france has enforced this right.
in writing. ‒ the figures for gender equality and women's empowerment are unacceptable: the millennium development goals for women are not being met, 62 million girls worldwide are not in school, one in three women in the world is at risk of physical or sexual violence at some point in her life... what barbarity! let us step up our action on gender equality and women's empowerment. i have, of course, decided to vote in favour of this resolution on the second action plan of the union on gender equality and the empowerment of women in the context of development cooperation. these two dimensions will have to be integrated into all the components of the union's external policy and will have to be monitored and evaluated. the new plan must improve girls' access to education, help eliminate all forms of violence against women and contribute to women's economic empowerment. the challenges are many. let's keep trying.
in writing. ‒ the fight for gender equality is a global issue. the european union's 2010-2015 action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation has achieved important results, but further action is needed under the new 2016-2020 action plan. the latter focuses on ensuring physical and psychological integrity, promoting economic rights and strengthening the voice and participation of women and girls. it is welcome that targets are being set again, including to improve women's access to education and healthcare, and in particular sexual and reproductive rights, as we had requested. but i can only regret that the vast majority of the right and the entire far right have once again opposed access to free abortion services for all women, demonstrating once again their opposition to women's right to freely dispose of their bodies. but these attempts have been in vain, and that is to be welcomed. i voted for this report, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on equal opportunities and treatment for men and women in employment and work. while it is obviously desirable to put in place measures to establish equal pay for equal work, this report is in reality only a concentration of minority (especially lgbt) demands, which have no direct connection with the subject. moreover, the measures expressed represent a direct attack on the freedom of french companies, which are among the few that have already followed the original directives. the only effect of these constraints would therefore be to reduce once again the capacity of firms to hire. it would have been desirable if this report had been more transparent and had really focused on gender equality at work.
in writing. ‒ the desire to ensure equal pay for equal work between men and women is legitimate. but, following the amendments which have been adopted, the report has been largely diverted from its original objective. many communal demands, including lgbt, have been inserted. so much so that mrs zaborska, the rapporteur on the substance, has become disillusioned with her own text! i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ today, despite a european action plan adopted in 2006, the gender pay gap persists and is even widening. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission to propose new legislation providing for more effective means of monitoring the implementation and application of this action plan in the member states.
in writing. - i voted against this report which has been distorted by amendments imposed by the lgbt lobby. i would also like to note that mrs zaborska, the slovak member of parliament who is the author of this report, herself cautiously abstained on the final vote, whereas her group, the epp, had called for a vote in favour. the fact is that "christian democrats" (or so-called) and lgbt lobbyists have been getting along quite well for a number of years...
in writing. this report on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in matters of employment and occupation is intended to take stock of the progress made in the application of directive 2006/54/ec on equal treatment between men and women in matters of employment. the report proposes, among other things, to apply coercive measures to companies for equal pay... nevertheless, it is interesting to note the idea of studies on the occupational situations of women according to their personal situation but with a risk of eu interference in private life. unfortunately, while this text seemed well oriented, it is undermined by communitarian (lgbt or ethnic) demands and proposals that go against the freedom of enterprise. in fact, the rapporteur, mrs zaborska, has distanced herself from her text. moreover, france is one of the few countries which have applied the original directive and it would not be appropriate, in validating this text, to exploit a shortcoming which would lead to more constraints. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the original text was to defend equal treatment between women and men in matters of employment and work. the report therefore requires companies to adopt recruitment criteria which prevent managers from discriminating against women in hiring. the rapporteur even envisages coercive measures to reduce or even eliminate the pay gap between women and men. we deeply regret that this text has been distorted to include demands. it is for this reason that the rapporteur has distanced herself from this text and tabled a minority opinion in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. these amendments are clearly contrary to our vision of equality and introduce additional constraints on the functioning of companies, thus undermining their efficiency. moreover, this text adds nothing to what france already applies in terms of equal treatment between women and men. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ equality between men and women in the labour market still faces many obstacles. it is a fact that women often receive less pay than men for equal work. this situation cannot continue. member states and businesses must do everything in their power to achieve full equality between men and women in employment and work. the european union can serve as a platform for the exchange of good practice for equality in this field. in europe we have values and equality is a fundamental founding principle. we must do everything we can to ensure that this principle is respected within the union. the latter must set an example for the whole world. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the text in question was originally well-intentioned, in that it was intended to ensure equal pay for equal work for women and men. however, it was later amended to claim the cause of lgbt community activists and ethnic minorities. the proposals for measures thus became incompatible with the freedom of enterprise, the cradle of employment. the rapporteur, mrs zaborska, has also distanced herself from this text and tabled a minority opinion in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report highlights the shortcomings in the application of european standards on equal treatment for men and women in terms of pay. the report calls on the european commission to come up with a new legislative proposal including provisions on equal treatment for pensions, effective monitoring systems and the strengthening of the role of the social partners as well as access to legal support for victims of discrimination. we tabled a number of amendments in the epp group to exclude controversial references outside the european union's competence, for example on the definition of gender. i support the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in the labour market, but i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ at a time when the fight to reduce the wage gap no longer seems to be producing the desired effects, parliament wanted to ask the european commission to revise the directive in order to strengthen and make more effective the legislative framework to put an end to wage discrimination based on sex. the major remaining problem is that of unjustified gender pay inequality, with a gap of 16.2% within the european union. i therefore voted in favour of mrs zaborska's report. in adopting this resolution, we are therefore highlighting the importance of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in employment and work.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the application of the gender equality directives at work. first, it wants to introduce coercive measures in the workplace to force employers to ensure that equality is effectively respected. it also plans to adapt the rules to the personal situation of the citizens concerned. however, in addition to the coercive measures, this report serves as a trojan horse for many recommendations from ideological circles. the question of differentiation according to personal circumstances could, under the guise of good feelings, lead to an interference in private life. while france was one of the first countries to implement the european recommendations on gender equality at work, this report seeks to promote communitarian demands, on the pretext that some european countries would not comply with these requirements. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because it introduces calls for gender theory, which have nothing to do with the original objectives of the report.
in writing. strong gender inequalities still persist today in the labour market. in view of this, i have spoken in favour of the revision of the 2006 directive on gender equality in the labour market. finally, to put words into action, concrete responses are needed, which is why, together with my progressive colleagues, i am asking the commission to take action by including in a revised directive compulsory pay audits for publicly traded companies (with the exception of smes) and the introduction of sanctions at european level to exclude from european public contracts companies which do not take on their responsibility for equal pay. we also call on states to ensure that the burden of proof is reversed, ensuring that it is always the employer's responsibility to prove that differences in treatment are not the result of discrimination. finally, we call for free legal aid for victims of discrimination, the prohibition of all discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity or gender reassignment, the reconciliation of work and private life and positive measures to increase women's participation in the decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ although the entry into force of the 2006 directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment has significantly reduced the gender pay gap, we have seen a stagnation in recent years. wage inequalities, when based on sex discrimination and not justified by any objective factor such as skills or qualifications, are unacceptable and must be vigorously combated. despite national legislation and awareness campaigns, a gender pay gap of 16% persists. we cannot remain indifferent to this situation and we cannot accept discriminatory practices based on sex in certain companies. i therefore call on our legislators to be very firm and i would like to reiterate my commitment to equal treatment for men and women in employment and work.
in writing. ‒ the desire to ensure equal pay for equal work between men and women is commendable. but the report distorts the issue to develop communitarian claims, particularly lgbt. moreover, the uneven application of this directive would risk adding unnecessary constraints, such as the social policy of entrepreneurs. the rapporteur, mrs zaborska, also took a stand against this text because of certain ambiguities and community amendments. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague anna zaborska on the implementation of the directive on equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. the report calls for a review of the directive to relaunch the fight to reduce pay gaps and to address the problems identified so far, in particular the effectiveness of control systems, the role of the social partners and access to legal aid for victims of discrimination. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. while it contains very good initiatives on the substance and is in the right direction, it is very badly constructed and will not facilitate, in its present form, an effective fight against inequalities between men and women in terms of access to employment and work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague anna zaborska on the evaluation and implementation of the european directives on equal pay for men and women. in fact, the reduction of the unfair pay gap between men and women has been stagnating for several years. we must clearly take stock, identify the reasons for this wage inequality, distinguish between the causes of real and unacceptable discrimination and the differences due to heterogeneous professional backgrounds, and propose concrete and effective remedies and ways of tackling them, for example by means of appropriate sanctions for companies which do not respect the principle of equal work for equal pay.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in employment and work. while the text is a priori well oriented (ensuring equal pay for equal work, avoiding undignified pensions, etc.), it is undermined by various communitarian demands and proposals for measures incompatible with freedom of enterprise, the cradle of employment. one of these demands is parity in the boards of directors. paragraph 28 abolishes the freedom to choose one's employees. france is also one of the few countries to have applied the original directive. the lack of enforcement by other countries should not be exploited to add constraints which are neither useful nor within the competence of the european union, such as the social policy of entrepreneurs.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. this text, which was originally laudable, provides for equal pay for equal work, the avoidance of undignified pensions and the use of grids with recruitment criteria. although interesting, this text is perverted and misused by the many pro-lgbti amendments, and by european measures that are neither useful nor within the eu's remit.
in writing. ‒ despite anti-discrimination legislation, including the 2006 directive, the gender pay gap still stands at around 16.5%. the report stresses the need to combat gender stereotypes, which the christian democrat rapporteur strongly opposes. that is reason enough for it not to vote for its report as amended. the text recommends a number of measures to improve access to justice and to impose sanctions on companies that are reluctant to hire women. it also points to imbalances between work and family life, discrimination in pension schemes and, above all, the precariousness of work: the increase in part-time work, the abuse of atypical forms of contract, including contracts without hours, which allow people to escape employment and social protection obligations. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the desire to ensure equal pay for equal work between men and women is commendable. but the report distorts the issue to develop communitarian claims, particularly lgbt. moreover, the uneven application of this directive would risk adding unnecessary constraints, such as the social policy of entrepreneurs. the rapporteur, mrs zaborska, also dissociated herself from this text because of certain ambiguities and community amendments. i therefore voted against.
in writing. the zaborska report on equal opportunities for men and women in employment and occupation aims to take stock of the progress of directive 2006/54/ec on this subject. although this text may appear to be well-oriented in view of the stated objective of ensuring equal pay for equal work and combating undignified pensions, it is undermined by communitarian demands of various kinds and puts forward proposals for measures which are too restrictive for the employer, thus risking endangering the freedom of enterprise as it exists in france. france is also one of the few countries which have already applied the original directive; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the application of the directive on the implementation of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. the text calls on the european commission to revise the european legislative framework in order to strengthen and make more effective the directive aimed at ending pay discrimination based on sex. i particularly supported the provisions calling on member states to make efforts to make services available to pregnant women or mothers that can help them not to have to choose between work and family life.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague anna zaborska. this report concerns the application of directive 2006/54/ec, which consolidates and modernises the union acquis in this field by merging the previous directives. the european parliament has consistently called for stronger action to improve the implementation of equal pay provisions at european level in the past and adopted resolutions to this effect in 2008 and 2012. in her report, ms zaborska stressed that member states had, in general, brought their legislation into line with eu legislation. however, it draws attention to the fact that, as things stand, transposition has proved insufficient to allow full implementation and enforcement, as a large wage gap continues to exist. the aim is to address important remaining problems such as: adequate and uniform assessment of work, the application of equal treatment provisions in relation to pension schemes, effective control systems, the role of the social partners and access to legal aid for victims of discrimination.
in writing. this own-initiative report proposes a reform of directive 2006/54/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the principles of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. the fact that the wage gap has remained unchanged or even widened since the implementation of the directive and the ineffectiveness of the principles of equal pay enshrined in the texts make this reform necessary in order to strengthen the guarantees of full application. to this end, the proposed measures aim in particular to harmonise the definitions of key terms of equal pay, or to establish financial penalties for undertakings which fail to comply with these principles. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the zaborska report on equal opportunities for men and women in employment and occupation aims to take stock of the progress of directive 2006/54/ec on this subject. although this text may appear to be well-oriented in view of the stated objective of ensuring equal pay for equal work and combating undignified pensions, it is undermined by communitarian demands of various kinds and puts forward proposals for measures which are too restrictive for the employer, thus risking endangering the freedom of enterprise as it exists in france. france is also one of the few countries which have already applied the original directive; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i abstained on this report, although i strongly support equality between men and women in all areas. however, the text of the report contains a number of measures which are ineffective and may, in addition, end up being used against women themselves. as an example, i would mention the proposals for mandatory quotas for the representation of women and men on boards. these measures really don't help women.
in writing. ‒ equal opportunities for men and women in employment is a political priority for me, and we must take all the necessary decisions to achieve this. these measures must be effective and appropriate to the objective pursued. i do not want europe to interfere in matters where it has no place. these positions, which are being defended by some of my colleagues, do not in any way respect the principle of subsidiarity. that's why i abstained on some passages.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which aims to strengthen european legislation on equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in employment and work. this equality is provided for in the european directive 2006/54/ec. however, its implementation in the member states does not seem to be sufficient: the gender pay gap in the union averages 16.4%; employment rates are generally lower for women; the differences in pension levels remain significant. the implementation of the 2006 directive needs to be strengthened and genuine equality of opportunity and treatment between men and women needs to be established, by reducing pay gaps, increasing women's economic independence, improving women's access to the labour market, establishing equality in decision-making processes or eliminating discriminatory structures and practices. for those who still doubt it, let us remember that this institution will have major positive effects for the benefit of society as a whole.
in writing. ‒ while the text is a priori well oriented (ensuring equal pay for equal work, avoiding undignified pensions, etc.), it is undermined by lgbt and ethnic minority communitarian demands and proposals for measures incompatible with the freedom of enterprise, the cradle of employment. france is also one of the few countries to have applied the original directive. the lack of enforcement by other countries should not be exploited to add constraints which are neither useful nor within the union's remit, such as the social policy of entrepreneurs. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ inequality between women and men in the labour market remains a sad reality. this is despite a large body of legislation, the principle of equal pay having been enshrined in the treaties since the beginning of european integration and transposed into european law by the 2006 directive on equal opportunities and equal treatment. the revision of this directive is therefore necessary, in particular in order to create truly binding instruments capable of effectively combating discrimination. the report proposes a series of measures to improve pay transparency and combat discrimination in pension schemes. i welcome the fact that there are provisions to combat gender stereotypes, and that the deconstruction of these stereotypes from an early age is a necessity, despite the opposition of the right and the far right. worse still, i have seen that the far right, particularly the fn, have almost systematically rejected measures promoting equality between men and women, including in social matters, in the name of rejecting any binding european provision. however, there is an urgent need to implement binding measures to combat such discrimination. that is why i voted for it.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as minister schmit has said, europe must show solidarity, but it cannot take a short-term view of the issues of migration and asylum. this may be a permanent phenomenon which we must face with greater boldness, considering that our planet is a common one and that refugees are human beings forced to leave their homelands because of poverty, repression, war and the scourge of terrorism. yes, first of all we must deal with the humanitarian emergency. you are right, mr president juncker, to deplore the lack of a budget today, but you cannot at the same time advocate budgetary restrictions, as you do. i also believe that we should support the idea of an international conference on refugees. the solution is not to make our neighbours border guards, even if we have to help the countries that have taken in millions of refugees. as for turkey, i say yes to compassion and solidarity with the turkish people, but i would rather urge caution with mr erdogan. we have already had terrible experiences and terrible setbacks with tunisia and libya, which played a bit of a border guard role. the causes of migration must be tackled: poverty, repression, war and terrorism. this would require greater coordination for large-scale diplomatic initiatives and for an international coalition under the auspices of the un against the islamic state group. it would also require an end to the looting and exploitation of africa, an end to free trade agreements that destroy african agriculture and services, and a fight against tax evasion and fraud, which cost africa $50 billion a year! this is exactly the amount that would allow africans to meet their infrastructure and service needs. i think that is what could be discussed at the valletta summit. i would like to say a few words about economic and monetary union, which you have not had time to discuss. the reason should, i believe, be to put an end to the current leap forward in the accompaniment of the financial markets. now we're back to the dangerous idea of financial securitization. we are told that the national budgets are to be controlled more closely and that wage pressure is to be exerted by what you have called the 'competitiveness authorities'. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further aggravated by the current situation. listen to the international monetary fund, which says that greece's debt must be restructured! let's discuss these matters! let's make some new decisions! we propose to create a social and ecological development fund dedicated to these new projects of the future. what we are advocating is a refoundation of the european project, a humanistic and solidarity-based project. i believe that this is the only way that europe can exist tomorrow.
mr president, the european council will meet for the fourth time this spring to deal with the refugee crisis. there will be two dozen more council meetings on the subject, because the experience of the euro crisis has shown that some twenty last-chance summits are necessary when the union is threatened at its foundations, and this is the case at present. the european council tomorrow will of course deal with the urgent problems, but it is also time to consider the medium- and long-term consequences. the refugee exodus we are witnessing today is unprecedented, but it is only the first of a phenomenon that will characterize this century and will force us to make a profound rethinking of at least three of our major policies. first, the budget: in 2013, the european council wanted to reduce the european budget for seven years. he'll find out tomorrow thursday that the cage he set has exploded. we cannot finance at the same time cohesion policy, agricultural policy, horizon 2020, the juncker plan, the strengthening of border controls, the retention of refugees in turkey and the 100 billion in aid promised to developing countries for cop 21. this is a joke! secondly, foreign policy: the issue of migration must be placed at the top of our foreign policy priorities. president juncker rightly cited the case of turkey. finally, the policy of development cooperation. the euro-african summit in valletta should mark the beginning of a new type of partnership between europe and the african continent: the control of migration and the common interest of our old continent and the one that embodies the youth of the world. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
"blue card" is the answer to bill etheridge. mr president, like president juncker and like a majority of members here, i am struck by the fact that our voters want this very serious problem to be dealt with with both humanity and realism.
mr president, i thank you for your patience, mr commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, this european council will be another important meeting for the european union at a time when it is struggling with its imperfections. before the summer, you had to deal with the greek problem in european council after european council, since economic and monetary union is an unfinished project. today, you have to deal with the refugee issue, european council after european council, because we have the schengen area without having fully considered the consequences. i have the impression that this time, fortunately, you will be particularly concerned with the question of the relationship between the european union and our so-called neighbourhood, that is to say, our foreign policy. i urge you to be strong in this strategy, because it is the one that will allow the european union to speak with one voice and to be present on the international scene at a time when so much unrest is breaking out at our borders. there is good news, like the nobel prize that tunisia has just received, but there are also all these troubles that europe needs to speak out about. we're counting on you!
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, we have said it and we must say it again: we are facing the fight of the century. yeah, fight of the century, for a lot of reasons. the first is that if we do nothing and we fail to limit the global temperature rise to a maximum of two degrees by the end of the century, we will see more droughts and floods, more melting of glaciers, less agricultural land. secondly, it should be remembered that climate change will be an aggravating factor in the migration problem. today, in good times and bad, we have 24 million displaced persons and refugees, because of wars, dictatorships, but also because of the climate and climate change. again, if nothing is done, we will have a temperature rise of 4.5 to 6 degrees by the end of the century and we will have 200 million climate refugees worldwide. we must overcome the failure of the copenhagen summit at the end of 2009. this failure has been traumatic for all of us. we must therefore make the paris conference a success. i believe that the report i am putting before you this afternoon and which we will be voting on this evening is a report which will make this possible, which will enable europe to be a model and a driving force at cop 21, at the end of 2015. we are proposing in this report a universal and binding agreement. we have had kyoto, where some, like the united states and china, did not want to be signatories. we have included in this report ambitious climate targets for the planet and for europe. first, the total elimination of greenhouse gas emissions worldwide by 2050, but also the reduction of at least 40% of these emissions in europe by 2030. we also aim to increase the share of renewable energy in europe to 30% by 2030 and to increase the energy efficiency of our continent by 40% by 2030. without such goals, we will not trigger the paradigm shift we so badly need to address climate change. as laurent fabius, french foreign minister and president of cop 21, has recently said, i believe that the financial question is and will be the cornerstone of the paris agreement. this is therefore a major focus of my report. we are calling for a clear roadmap from the states on how each of them intends to finance the $100 billion annual green fund from 2020 onwards. public and private commitments currently provide $62 billion a year. the governments must now be clear about how they intend to collect the remaining 38 billion which will be missing every year in the next five years. another proposal is to set a global 'carbon price' to make the least polluting technologies the most attractive to investors. we are also making proposals on the use of ets credits to finance the fight against climate change. the price of ets credits has fallen dramatically in recent years in europe, making it unable to effectively finance the fight against climate change. in the context of the current revision of the directive, commissioner, we must ensure that the price of a tonne of co2 is raised significantly. we must be aware that we must give a hand to the developing countries, which are the most affected by the consequences of climate change. in my report i also wanted to highlight other successes in paris, in particular the revision of the memorandum of understanding every five years. i would like to welcome the commitment of the french presidency, but also of all parties, and i would also like to recall how climate change is an opportunity to seize to initiate new economic growth in the world but also in europe, green growth, and to put in place a new energy policy that not only supports employment but also the purchasing power of 500 million europeans. finally, i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteur for the excellent work we have done together.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the cop 21 summit is likely to be another failure. european countries are expected to shoulder the burden of the world's environmental problems. yet europe has been reducing its greenhouse gas emissions for years. yes, we have invested, built and developed innovative, clean and sustainable structures. anything to please, but some people here seem to be forgetting one important point, and that is reality. i am sorry to say that the effort has been very costly to european industry. we could agree to a binding agreement on the condition that as many countries as possible in the world participate, because the heart of the problem is to provide coordinated and shared efforts. for years, emerging economies have been polluting on a large scale, and many of them have refused to join binding agreements, claiming that this would preserve their economic development. my dear colleagues, instead of incantations about reducing the rise in temperatures, let us seek a balanced and broad agreement, without destroying our industries and our competitiveness. realities are not decreed, they are imposed.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur. it is essential that we in the european parliament speak with one voice on this crucial issue for the future of our planet. in paris, i hope we can get an international agreement that is binding on as many people as possible, and especially on the countries that are the biggest emitters. but this agreement will have to be realistic. indeed, just because there is an agreement in paris does not mean that we will have found the solution to climate change and its accompanying disruptions (floods, hurricanes, droughts) that we are observing more and more frequently. the summit can only be considered a success if we get concrete solutions and binding commitments. the best way to succeed in paris is to be ambitious and pragmatic. the european union must not be the only one to act. we are less than 11% of the world's co2 emissions. without a concrete commitment from our partners, our efforts will be in vain. i would also like to mention the importance of credible funding, because, as we all know, money is the nerve of war. that is why i am calling for support for innovative financing and for greater involvement of the private sector. finally, i would like to stress the importance of not stigmatising certain sectors. i believe in positive action more than punitive action. but it must be made clear that everyone must participate. in this area, the involvement of non-state actors alongside governments is crucial in climate action.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gilles pargneaux, on his excellent work, which will send a strong and clear signal that the european union will be at the forefront of the fight against climate change. i was very happy to be able to contribute to this text as the fictitious rapporteur of the socialist and democratic group for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. yes, transport, which accounts for a quarter of the total co2 emissions of the european union and is the only sector whose emissions will continue to grow, must and can play its part in the objective of keeping global warming below 2 degrees. without a strong awareness of the role of transport in a context of increasing urbanisation to reduce co2 emissions, we will not be able to achieve the cop 21 targets. we must call on the commission and the member states to raise awareness among all stakeholders of the issues that link transport and the fight against global warming. it is also a formidable economic and social challenge which we must meet by developing public transport with exemplary engines, by promoting the modal relationship of freight to rail and inland waterways and by intensifying research into alternative fuels and new engines.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you to all the speakers. yes, we are in the fight of the century, a fight of the century not only for our daily lives but also for the future of our children and grandchildren. i would like to say to the climate sceptics that it is fortunate that our report is widely adopted tonight. we are fortunate to have an agreement in paris, because it will not only help to fight climate change, but also to change the paradigm and to set up a new economy based on green growth and a new energy policy, to allow a rise in purchasing power, especially for the most modest. i would also like to confirm to several of our colleagues that, yes, this report wants the aviation and maritime sectors to be included in the paris agreement and that, yes, we also want to end fossil fuel subsidies by 2020. we've engaged in a power struggle. if we, as a parliamentary democracy, are to win this balance of power, our report must be adopted tonight by the largest possible majority. we all very largely agree that the paris agreement should not be just a trial dialogue, but above all a dialogue to decide our future and that of our children.
in writing. cop21 is a key meeting in the fight against global warming. we must set ourselves ambitious targets for reducing co2 emissions. if climate change is already causing disruption and population displacement, tomorrow, in ten, thirty or a hundred years, these phenomena will be unmanageable. i would like to stress the collective nature of the commitment. europe alone accounts for only 11% of global co2 emissions. we cannot lead the energy transition and preserve the competitiveness of our economy without the commitment of emerging economies and developing countries. the ability of these countries to adapt to a low-carbon economic model will therefore play a major role. to this end, we must secure a budget of 100 billion euros, using both public and private funds, in which the countries of the union will take their fair share. in supporting this report, i would like to point out, however, that the key to the agreement is the feasibility of its objectives, however ambitious they may be. it is therefore essential to maintain a permanent dialogue between the different public and private sector entities in order to build a comprehensive action against co2.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
this closes the voting.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the consequences of the judgment of the european court of justice invalidating the 'safe area' decision for the united states (2015/2903 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine (2015/2869(rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, madam commissioner, we all welcome the progress of peace in this fragile period. nevertheless, cumulative measures for ukraine amount to eur 11 billion, financed from the eu budget and by financial institutions. but whether we like it or not, nothing is clear in this country: there is no transparency, no control. it took until august 25 to select the first 70 detectives of the anti-corruption office and they did not start their work until october 1, 2015. kiev will host an international anti-corruption conference on 16 november, although we know that ukraine is not making any effort in this regard, as the oecd reveals, which places the country 142nd out of 175 in the ranking of corruption. in may we received a delegation of ukrainian opposition members in parliament, which mr schulz refused to receive, which is absolutely incredible. they expressed the strongest reservations about the use of european funds and denounced the cases of misappropriation of funds, which were published in ukraine but unfortunately not in the european press. what constraints has the european union imposed on ukraine so far? can the union continue to disburse funds that are uncontrolled and have so far been uncontrolled?
in writing. this question, although not insignificant, is obviously a sign of the wish of well-meaning people to lock us up in 'social debates' to avoid turning to the real problems of europe. the fight against anti-semitic, islamophobic and hate speech must of course be fought; you can't discriminate against people because of their religion or anything else. however, such debates should not deprive us of all freedom of expression and criticism of, for example, multiculturalism or mass immigration, since any discourse on these subjects now inevitably refers to hate speech or discriminatory speech, while our elites refuse to face reality. this question tells us that jews are increasingly afraid of being verbally assaulted (46%) or physically assaulted (33%). in a 2009 survey by the same agency, one in three muslims surveyed said they had been discriminated against in the previous 12 months. unfortunately, this is also due to the current policies which, by fomenting hatred, imposing austerity or causing europe to lose its identity, are increasing tensions.
in writing. the pompous and boisterous title of this oral question is a reflection of the ostrich policy which characterises the conduct of states. the main cause of violence today based on religious or ethnic grounds is the disintegration of peoples and the failure of national cohesion. the european union and its associated governments are responsible for these tensions in our societies because of their support for mass immigration and the denial of our identities and cultures. i am not talking about a political project or a philosophical dream, i am talking about a european civilization which could accommodate nuances; but from these few exceptions, you have made a generalized, institutional communalism that is totally at odds with the very heart of this civilization. the most vivid, the most violent and the most expansive hatred has only one name: islamism. hatred of the west, hatred of europe, hatred of christians, hatred of jews, contempt for women, our laws, our cultures and our freedoms, this threat is growing. the political system in place, with its laxity and immigration policy, has brought the wolf into the fold. my dear colleagues, brothers and sisters of europe, wake up.
in writing. ‒ this report will enable the competent authorities of the member states to continue to have access to the visa information system (vis), in particular in the context of the fight against terrorism and other serious criminal offences. the proposed decision aims to replace council decision 2013/392/eu which has been censured by the court of justice of the european union. on 1 september 2013, the date from which decision 2008/633/jha took effect, it should be maintained as set out in article 1 of decision 2013/392/eu. this draft decision is more technical than political. it does not address the schengen area or the visa information system (vis). the member states are not deprived of their sovereignty, so i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure that the member states and europol have access to the visa information system (vis). this is to enable better detection and therefore better prevention of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. this seems to me to be much more useful and fundamental than the collection of data from the passenger name record.
in writing. this report sets the date of entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha on consultation of the visa information system (vis) by the designated authorities of the member states and by the european police office (europol) for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences. this decision should ensure the continuity of the access rights of the member states and europol to the visa information system. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ a report was submitted for an implementing decision to ensure the continuity of access rights to the visa information system (vis) for the member states and europol; i voted for this report which allows the prevention and detection of acts of terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this text is merely an implementing decision to ensure the continuity of the access rights of member states and europol to the visa information system in order to prevent and detect potential terrorist acts at an early stage. this draft decision is therefore primarily technical. on the substance of the matter, we believe that the schengen area should be abolished immediately in order to give the member states the leverage to act and control individuals entering national territory. europe is a sieve, and the massive influx of illegal immigrants from africa and the middle east, including terrorists, is a proof of that. the adoption of this implementing decision will in no way change this reality. i have voted in favour of this proposal, even though it is a ridiculous measure.
in writing. ‒ the decision in question is an implementing decision to ensure the continuity of the consultation rights of access to the visa information system of the designated authorities of the member states and europol. this would allow the establishment of a mechanism to help combat terrorism. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's position on the implementation of european legislation on access to consultation of the visa information system by the designated national authorities and by the european agency europol. these measures are aimed at strengthening cooperation between national and european authorities in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. i support these objectives and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to ensure the continuity of the rights of access to consultation of data in the visa information system (vis) by the designated authorities of the member states and by europol. i supported this text because it is necessary to be able to rely on the visa information system to strengthen the prevention and detection of terrorist offences at european level.
in writing. ‒ the visa information system (vis), established in 2004, was designed to strengthen european cooperation on the issue of control at the external borders of the union. by creating a common fingerprint database, the vis was supposed to facilitate visa application procedures and strengthen controls. this resolution was then more a technical formality than anything else. however, there is a need to address this visa information system, especially in view of the unprecedented levels of illegal migration faced by member states. the usefulness of the vis is indeed relative, since the states no longer have control over the borders, although, for example, controls were reintroduced in hungary as a result of the schengen agreements, which are clearly not effective. it is important, despite the apparent vacuity of this resolution, to do everything possible to combat the dogma of absolute freedom of movement in the face of the constant risk of terrorism. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of the decision on access to the vis, in consultation, by the designated authorities of the member states and by europol for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. i am glad that parliament is being consulted on this decision and can express its support for this approach. i believe that all the instruments at our disposal must be mobilised to combat terrorism, given the serious threats to the european continent, and in particular to france. it would be inconsistent for information systems such as the vis to remain inaccessible to the police. however, the blockage we are facing on the 'smart borders' package is precisely because some socialist meps are strongly opposed to police authorities having access to the future entry/exit system. how can we effectively protect the public if our police forces are kept away from the means to prevent the threat?
in writing. ‒ this is a report on the draft implementing decision to ensure the continuity of access rights by member states and europol to the visa information system (vis) for the purposes of preventing and detecting terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. the proposed decision aims to replace council decision 2013/392/eu, which has been censured by the court of justice of the european union. on 1 september 2013, the date from which decision 2008/633/jha took effect, it should be maintained as set out in article 1 of decision 2013/392/eu. the draft decision therefore has a technical dimension without colouring. it does not address the schengen area or the visa information system (vis). however, while in europe the trend is to question the usefulness of borders, the usefulness of the vis may seem incongruous. however, voting against this bill would be misinterpreted as not participating in the fight against terrorism. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague timothy kirkhope on access to the visa information service by member states and europol for the prevention and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. it replaced a council decision which had been annulled by the court of justice of the european union because the european parliament had not been consulted. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical report setting the date of entry into force of the council decision allowing the member states' authorities responsible for internal security and europol to access the visa information system (vis). this decision aims to facilitate the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences within the union framework. however, this legal authority to centralize and share visa data or any other database leads to a de facto stigmatization of migrants and foreign travellers on a security a priori. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this is a report on the draft implementing decision to ensure the continuity of access rights by member states and europol to the visa information system (vis) for the purposes of preventing and detecting terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. the proposed decision aims to replace council decision 2013/392/eu, which has been censured by the court of justice of the european union. on 1 september 2013, the date from which decision 2008/633/jha took effect, it should be maintained as set out in article 1 of decision 2013/392/eu. the draft decision therefore has a technical dimension without colouring. it does not address the schengen area or the visa information system (vis). however, while in europe the trend is to question the usefulness of borders, the usefulness of the vis may seem incongruous. however, voting against this bill would be misinterpreted as not participating in the fight against terrorism. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this implementing decision will allow the designated authorities of the member states and europol to continue to have access to the visa information system on a consultative basis. it is a technical decision, not a substantive one, which gives the institutions more resources in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. this resolution concerns the draft council implementing decision setting the date of entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha on consultative access to the visa information system (vis) by member states' authorities and europol for the purposes of preventing and investigating terrorist activities and other serious criminal offences. it is a purely technical resolution, not on the substance but on the details of a procedure which in fact already exists. at a time when schengen is obsolete and the countries of entry (italy, greece) are struggling to manage the flows, it is still necessary to reaffirm our commitment to combating terrorism. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on access to the visa information system (vis). the aim is to allow member states and europol to consult the system for the purposes of preventing and detecting terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences and for the purposes of investigating such offences. the council adopted an implementing decision on this subject in 2013 but did not consult the european parliament. the court of justice of the european union therefore annulled the decision while maintaining its effects until the entry into force of a new act. this decision replaces the annulled decision. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to set a date for the entry into force of council decision 2008/633/jha on consultation of the visa information system (vis) by the competent authorities designated by the member states and by europol. access to this system, which centralises visa information, would not only improve the prevention and detection of terrorist offences, but also facilitate their investigation. but in reality, this will allow a legal authority to centralize and share visa data, which represents a real risk of stigmatization towards the migrant or foreign populations. it is not a question here of deciding on the content of the decision itself, but on a very technical point, namely the date of its entry into force. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this resolution concerns the draft council implementing decision fixing the date of entry into force of decision 2008/633/jha on consultative access to the visa information system (vis) by member states' authorities and europol for the purpose of preventing and investigating terrorist activities and other serious criminal offences. it is a technical resolution which does not deal with the substance but with the details of a procedure which actually already exists. at a time when schengen is obsolete and the countries of entry (italy, greece) are struggling to manage the flows, this will not change the situation. however, i want to reiterate my commitment to the fight against terrorism. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to allow consultative access to the visa information system (vis) by member states and europol for the prevention and detection of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. the aim of the text is to strengthen surveillance systems within the union and give member states a further means of ensuring the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the forthcoming draft amending budget provides for a reduction in france's contribution to the eu budget. the initial budget for 2015 was €22.5 billion, while the amending budget number 6 announced a contribution of €21.8 billion, a decrease of €0.7 million. i am not in favour of a technocratic european union and therefore logically voted in favour of this project.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it provides, in particular, for a reduction in france's contribution to the union budget, following the increase in revenue from traditional resources (customs duties and levies in the sugar sector in particular). if france's contribution were to be reduced from 22.5 to 21.8 billion euros, we would save some 700 million euros, which is, according to the court of auditors, roughly what the irresponsible asylum policy of our current leaders cost us in 2013.
in writing. this report on draft amending budget no 6/2015 concerns the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources and the vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corresponding uk corrections and their financing, which have the effect of changing the distribution of their contributions to the union budget between member states. this bop no 6/2015 has no impact on expenditure in 2015. the impact on revenue is reflected in a change in the distribution of own resources contributions between member states. france's share is expected to fall from €22.5 billion to €21.8 billion as a result of higher than expected own revenue (customs duties and sugar levies). so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6, which reduces france's share in the eu budget (initial budget 2015: €22.5 billion; draft amending budget: €21.8 billion), as a result of revenue from traditional own resources.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the revision of the revenue forecasts of the european union. according to the latest studies, the own resources from customs duties and sugar levies could be higher than expected. this additional revenue would reduce the member states' contribution by eur 2.26 billion. this draft amending budget is based on the most recent statistics and has no impact on the expenditure entered in the 2015 budget. only the distribution of the member states' contributions is changed but still follows the rules agreed in advance. the report also provides for a change in the headcount of the office but does not change the number of posts and the budget allocated. we consider these amendments to be positive, since the contribution from the member states will be reduced. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft budget because it aims to reduce france's contribution to the eu budget as a result of higher than expected revenues from traditional own resources (customs duties and sugar levies).
in writing. ‒ this report proposes an amendment to the 2015 budget to mobilise an additional €401.3 million to deal with the refugee crisis, by revising the distribution of member states' contributions to the european budget. considering that this report aims to provide the means necessary for the implementation of recent decisions of the european union to respond to the migration crisis, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the draft does not change the expenditure entered in the 2015 budget, but only proposes a change in the distribution of contributions between member states. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget, which does not imply additional expenditure for the member states in 2015.
in writing. ‒ draft consolidated budget no 6 has the merit of reducing the initial 2015 budget by eur 2.26 billion. this adjustment is justified by higher than expected revenue from traditional own resources, such as customs duties and sugar levies. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on the amending budget for the union's own resources. the aim of this text is to revise the forecasts for the union's traditional own resources (customs duties) and vat bases, without any impact on 2015 expenditure or member states' contributions. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this amending budget because it reduces france's contribution to the european union by €700 million. this is partly due to the fact that the customs duties collected by the union were more profitable than expected. the contribution of france is thus increased from eur 22.5 billion to eur 21.8 billion.
in writing. ‒ this 6th amending budget of the union for 2015 provides for a reduction of €2.26 billion in the member states' contribution this year compared to what was planned. this is only possible thanks to a surplus of customs revenue and the large surplus of the 2014 budget (1.4 billion) carried over to 2015. this is an aberrant situation, whereas the union has accumulated over 20 billion in arrears under its various programmes. this european mismanagement puts at risk many national and local actions that relied on european funds that never arrive. these surpluses are the result of the austerity measures imposed by the commission and the council during the year in the management of expenditure. the budget reports usually deplore this budgetary cavalry, but in the end they always approve it. the socialist rapporteur is no longer making any criticism of these wanderings. while the 2015 budget was supposed to reduce arrears, a condition parliament had set for voting on it, it will be even more difficult by reducing budget revenues. i vote against this disguised austerity.
in writing. ‒ draft consolidated budget no 6 has the merit of reducing france's contribution to the eu budget by eur 1.3 billion. this adjustment is justified by higher than expected revenue from traditional own resources, such as customs duties and sugar levies. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget aims to reduce france's contribution to the union budget, which is why we support it. the latter will increase from eur 22.5 billion to eur 21.8 billion as a result of higher than expected revenues from traditional own resources (customs duties and sugar levies).
in writing. this draft amending budget no 6/2015 (dab) amends the estimates for traditional own resources (customs duties and sugar levies) and vat and gni bases, as well as the budgeting and financing of uk corrections, with the effect of reducing the member states' contribution to the union budget. the revenue from traditional own resources was €1.1335 billion higher than expected. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the principle of proportionality. this therefore leads to a reduction of €2.26 billion in the contribution of the states to the union budget, or for france about €0.7 billion. the draft budget also creates two budget lines for expenditure in support of the trust funds managed by the european commission, in the fields of development and cooperation and enlargement, and finally changes the staff of the office of the body of european regulators for telecommunications. i consider that the reduction in france's contribution to the union budget is substantial and have therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft amending budget on own resources, the union's trust funds for external action and the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. this revision of the traditional own resources forecasts is the result of the corrections made by the united kingdom. it changes the distribution of contributions to the eu budget by the member states but has no impact on expenditure in 2015.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 6/2015 (dab) amends the estimates for traditional own resources (customs duties and sugar levies) and vat and gni bases, as well as the budgeting and financing of uk corrections, with the effect of reducing the member states' contribution to the eu budget. the revenue from traditional own resources was €1.1335 billion higher than expected. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the principle of proportionality. this therefore leads to a reduction of €2.26 billion in the contribution of the states to the eu budget, or, for france, about €0.7 billion. the draft budget also creates two budget lines for expenditure in support of the trust funds managed by the european commission, in the fields of development and cooperation and enlargement, and finally changes the staff of the office of the body of european regulators for telecommunications. considering that the reduction in france's contribution to the eu budget is substantial, i decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009, parliament has been given the power to co-decide with the council on the union's budget. parliament then has to vote on each amendment to the budget. in this context, i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2015 on own resources, the union trust funds for external action and the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. this text has no impact on expenditure in 2015 and only changes the distribution of member states' contributions to the union budget.
in writing. ‒ this text will authorize the mobilisation of eur 66.1 million. this sum will be drawn from the flexibility instrument, i.e. the financing mechanism available for unforeseen expenditure in the european union. in this case, this extension will be used to finance the recent immigration measures taken by the european council with the support of the commission. this €66.1 million will be in addition to the €330.7 million of new funds and the €70.6 million already redeployed for this purpose. so i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ we were asked to vote for the mobilisation of an additional €66.1 million to finance eu immigration measures: this is in addition to the €330.7 million from a new ad hoc fund and the €70.6 million that has been 'redispatched'. immigration madness against the peoples of europe. i have of course voted against this report by mrs gardiazabal rubial, an obscure spanish socialist who has received the outspoken and massive support of her colleagues in the epp. in paris and brussels, the umps is leading us into the wall.
in writing. council regulation (eu, euratom) no 11/2013 of 2 december 2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 provides for the possibility to mobilise the flexibility instrument in order to allow for the financing of precisely identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the available ceilings of one or more of the headings of the multiannual financial framework. the payment appropriations corresponding to the proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instrument amount to eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017 to finance support for measures to manage the refugee crisis. this is in addition to €330.7 million of new funds and €70.6 million redeployed. so i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the mobilisation of €66.1 billion from the flexibility instrument (a financing mechanism available for unforeseen expenditure that exceeds the eu budget). the aim of this €66.1 billion mobilisation is to finance the immigration measures decided by the european council.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument beyond the ceilings set in the multiannual financial framework for an amount of 66.1 million in commitment appropriations to finance the reception of illegal migrants. the text also approves the council's proposal for €52.9 million for 2016 and €13.2 million for 2017 in payment appropriations. it is absolutely outrageous to see european technocrats squandering taxpayers' money on illegal migrants when most eu member states are experiencing a gdp growth rate of close to 0%, a structurally high unemployment rate and a growing poverty rate. this flood of migration, which the commission hopes will meet the needs of large firms, will increase the deficit in our social accounts and put additional pressure on the labour market to the detriment of the least qualified unemployed. i therefore voted against this inadmissible text.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian crisis caused by the massive influx of refugees into the territory of the european union requires rapid action. in this report, the european parliament accepts the council's decision to mobilise the flexibility instrument to help manage the refugee crisis. the flexibility instrument is a provision in the european budget to release funds in case of emergency. it is undeniable that the mobilisation of this instrument is justified and necessary. i voted in favour of this report. i also welcome the willingness of the european institutions to take action to manage this crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to mobilise €66.1 million from the flexibility instrument to benefit the immigration measures decided by the european council.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument provided for in the multiannual financial framework and allowing for an amendment to the 2015 budget to mobilise an additional €401.3 million to deal with the refugee crisis. the funds will be allocated to the eu countries affected by these exceptional migration flows, to the third countries hosting the largest number of syrian refugees and to the three european agencies responsible for managing migrants. the rapporteur also proposes to initiate a review of the seven-year european budgetary framework in order to provide for additional funds in the long term. considering that this report aims to provide the means necessary for the implementation of recent decisions of the european union to respond to the migration crisis, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. the emergency situation generated by the migration crisis of recent months requires an upward revision of the european union's expenditure. i supported the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. it is essential to support and allocate the necessary funds to the various measures to manage the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ this text mobilises the sum of €66.1 million drawn from the flexibility instrument, i.e. from the european union's unforeseen expenditure, to finance the european council's immigration measures. this €66.1 million will be in addition to the €330.7 million of new funds and the €70.6 million redeployed. all paid for by the national taxpayers. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument under the european agenda on migration. this instrument will mobilise an additional €66 million to support european migration policy. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the decision to draw more than €66 million from the 'flexibility instrument' fund, because it is intended to be used for the reception of migrants.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses various budgetary tricks to finance the immigration measures contained in the 7th amending budget. under the 'flexibility instrument', the commission will be allowed to exceed the ceiling for commitment appropriations previously set for the programmes concerned. however, to cover the corresponding payments, it is only proposed to reallocate existing appropriations in 2016 and 2017. it is already foreseeable and accepted that emergency actions undertaken in 2015 will only be paid for in two years. this is likely to seriously reduce the effectiveness of these actions, which may not be completed in the midst of the migrant crisis. this will also exacerbate the shortage of payment appropriations available to pay for programmes already decided and to settle the mountain of unpaid debts accumulated by the eu. i am opposed to these budgetary remedies which will not solve any of the urgent problems and will only worsen the eu's budgetary difficulties in the medium term. but, given the purpose and the malice of the media observers appointed, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ this text mobilises the sum of €66.1 million drawn from the flexibility instrument, i.e. from the european union's unforeseen expenditure, to finance the european council's immigration measures. this €66.1 million will be in addition to the €330.7 million of new funds and the €70.6 million redeployed. all paid for by the national taxpayers. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ as part of the immigration measures decided by the european council, it is proposed to increase by €66.1 million the €330.7 million of new funds and the €70.6 million already allocated to the reception of refugees. this increase will come from the flexibility instrument, which is a financing mechanism available for unforeseen expenditure that exceeds the eu budget. in line with our opposition to the suicidal decisions of the european institutions to welcome all the migrants who show up at our borders, we categorically reject the use of this instrument for such purposes.
in writing. following the european council of 23 september 2015, which detailed the measures envisaged by the eu to deal with the migration overwhelming, the committee on budgets decided to draw €66.1 million from the flexibility instrument (which is a financing mechanism available for unforeseen expenditure that exceeds the eu budget) to finance the immigration measures decided by the european council. this is in addition to €330.7 million of new funds and €70.6 million redeployed. this proposal is both politically scandalous, since it aims to make the taxpayers of european countries finance the immigration delusions of their europeanist leaders, but also because this budgetary increase violates the obligation to obtain the unanimity of the members of the council to amend the multiannual financial framework. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the use of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. the text, which accompanies draft amending budget no 7/2015, is purely accounting and approves the commission's proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2015 for an amount of eur 66.1 million in commitment appropriations. the corresponding payment appropriations amount to eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017. the request for payments for 2015 related to this report and the draft amending budget remains unchanged and will be reflected in the 2016 budget.
in writing. the report proposes to approve the commission's decision to take emergency financial measures to allow the ceiling for commitments of appropriations fixed in advance for the various european programmes to be exceeded. this flexibility instrument would allow €66.1 million to be released for this year and the next two to help member states, and in particular greece and italy, to carry out the policy of relocating migrants to the rest of the union. as the relocation plans have already begun, the legitimacy of this exceptional measure is not in doubt. the eu's policy to manage the migration crisis is so large that financial support must be adequate. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ following the european council of 23 september 2015, which detailed the measures envisaged by the eu to deal with the migration flood, the committee on budgets decided to draw €66.1 million from the flexibility instrument (which is a financing mechanism available for unforeseen expenditure that exceeds the eu budget) to finance the immigration measures decided by the european council. this is in addition to €330.7 million of new funds and €70.6 million redeployed. this proposal is both politically scandalous, since it aims to make the taxpayers of european countries finance the immigration delusions of their leaders, but also because this budgetary increase violates the obligation to obtain the unanimity of the members of the council to amend the multiannual financial framework. i have therefore decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ in order to be able to react quickly and effectively to the migration challenges the union is currently facing, the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in 2015 with €66.1 million in commitment appropriations. the european parliament approved this budgetary amendment. i would stress the importance of having a flexible budget so that we can deal with exceptional situations and provide the union with the appropriate financial means to deal with these situations.
in writing. ‒ despite opposition from a number of member states to the plan to relocate asylum seekers within the european union from eu border countries to all member states, the first relocations took place in early october. it should be recalled that 160 000 asylum seekers, potential refugees, since they are only syrian, eritrean and iraqi asylum seekers, should be covered by this proposal and be able to benefit from relocation on european territory from italy and greece to other eu member states. in order to promote the integration of these refugees and their reception in other member states, the european commission has called for the introduction of exceptional measures, including financial ones. as relocations have already begun, it is more than necessary to make this funding available to the member states, and especially to greece and italy. the commission is proposing to do this by using the so-called flexibility instrument, which makes it possible to amend the budget for this year and the next two years for this exceptional instrument. the release of these eur 66.1 million is necessary. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this report discusses the council's position on draft amending budget no 7, which deals with the management of the current migration crisis. the project provides for more than €455 million from the 2015 budget for immigration policy. at no point does he mention the closure of internal borders to solve the thorny problem of immigration. however, the suspension of the schengen area would certainly have a significant deterrent effect. a lot of money is allocated to the reception of illegal immigrants, while a large part of the member states are unable to return illegal aliens... so i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ another €455 million for 'migrants' ... i of course voted against this report by mrs gardiazabal rubial, an obscure spanish socialist who has received the outspoken and massive support of her colleagues in the epp. in paris and brussels, the umps is leading us into the wall. to solve the migration crisis we are facing, it is urgent and essential to re-establish our borders. frontex has proved incapable of protecting the internal borders of the eu, so schengen must be suspended before our nations are plunged into immigration chaos once and for all. all the rest is just literature... and gibberish.
in writing. draft amending budget (dab) no 7 for the financial year 2015 aims to introduce the necessary changes to allow immediate action to be taken in the last months of 2015, making use of all the possibilities for redeploying appropriations at this stage of the year. the budget for the 'migrant crisis' is €455 million. the commission is also planning to increase the staffing levels of various agencies, such as frontex, the amfi and isf funds by €100 million, the european neighbourhood instrument by €300 million, etc. this is obviously not a lasting solution and only a firm policy against the flood of migration is needed. the schengen agreements must be abolished in order to re-establish controls, systematically return illegal aliens to the border and take as a model australia's migration policy. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i also voted against draft amending budget no 7, which provides for allocating more than €455 million from the 2015 budget to the migrant crisis. these funds are reckless and doomed to fail. the only solution is a suspension of the schengen agreements (re-establishment of internal border controls) and the return of illegal aliens to the border.
in writing. ‒ this text aims to strengthen the eu's overall financial means to deal with the flood of migration. in detail, the report provides for an increase of the budget allocated to the internal security fund by eur 100 million, an increase of eur 300 million in the budget for the european neighbourhood instrument and an increase of eur 55.7 million in humanitarian aid. finally, it is planned to increase the staffing levels of frontex, easo and europol by an additional 120 posts, at an estimated annual cost of eur 1.3 million. at a time when europeans are facing mass unemployment, poverty and the suppression of a growing part of their social acquis, it is absolutely indecent to allocate additional funds to the reception of illegal migrants. we know that the massive influx of illegal immigrants meets the needs of multinational companies, which see it as an opportunity to increase their competitiveness. we believe that only the immediate closure of the schengen area, accompanied by a foreign policy aimed at stabilising the middle east, will make it possible to combat this flood of migration effectively. i therefore voted against this scandalous text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it provides for an allocation of more than €455 million from the 2015 budget to the migrant crisis. this allowance is not a reasonable solution. the european union should tackle the problem of migration first by passing through internal border controls.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes an amendment to the 2015 budget to mobilise an additional €401.3 million to deal with the refugee crisis. the funds will be allocated to the eu countries affected by these exceptional migration flows, to the third countries hosting the largest number of syrian refugees and to the three european agencies responsible for managing migrants. the rapporteur also proposes to initiate a review of the seven-year european budgetary framework in order to provide for additional funds in the long term. considering that this report aims to provide the means necessary for the implementation of recent decisions of the european union to respond to the migration crisis, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. member states, at the informal european council on 23 september 2015, announced the mobilisation of 1 billion euro in response to the humanitarian situation of migrants. i voted in favour of additional funds to help countries which are hosting refugees.
in writing. ‒ this is the report on the council's position on draft amending budget no 7 on the management of the refugee crisis. in addition to allocating additional resources to the european asylum support office, the report calls into question the frontex operation, which is said to be disregarding the fundamental rights of migrants, and allocates more than €455 million from the 2015 budget to the migration crisis. it is important for taxpayers to understand that the lavish funding they are supporting is money thrown out the window. the only realistic and effective solution, however, is to suspend the schengen agreements and systematically return irregular aliens to the border. i voted against most of the provisions and abstained on some.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on the amending budget under the european agenda on migration. the text strengthens the budget lines needed to implement the immediate measures required for the reception of refugees. these budget increases will allow for financial support to member states most affected by the migration crisis, to strengthen the capacities of frontex and to increase assistance to third countries hosting syrian refugees. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this amending budget no 7 for several reasons, not least because it provides for the allocation of more than eur 455 million for the reception of migrants. it thus helps to maintain an "air call" for immigration.
in writing. ‒ this 7th amending budget for 2015 provides for various budgetary measures to supplement the various european programmes on asylum and migration, including the frontex agency, whose purely bureaucratic and security-oriented view of migration flows i denounce. the report also praises the commission for its action, which is totally ineffective in the face of a crisis that is only getting worse. the european council also welcomed the commitment by the member states to provide an additional billion to deal with the migrant crisis. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the appropriations for the structural funds by a further ecu 1 billion. i should vote against this hypocritical report which will do nothing to resolve the current crisis, but, given the purpose and the malice of the media observers appointed, i will abstain.
in writing. ‒ this is the report on the council's position on draft amending budget no 7 on the management of the refugee crisis. in addition to allocating additional resources to the european asylum support office, the report calls into question the frontex operation, which is said to be disregarding the fundamental rights of migrants, and allocates more than €455 million from the 2015 budget to the migration crisis. it is important for taxpayers to understand that the lavish funding they are supporting is money thrown out the window. the only realistic and effective solution, however, is to suspend the schengen agreements and systematically return irregular aliens to the border. i voted against most of the provisions and abstained on some.
in writing. ‒ this draft budget provides for allocating more than €455 million from the 2015 budget to the migrant crisis. we are strongly opposed to this, because it is a wasteful expenditure which does not address the real problems and creates an appeal for other migrants. the only solution to the waves of migration our countries are experiencing is the suspension of the schengen agreements and the reintroduction of internal border controls. in addition, the systematic repatriation of illegal aliens must be introduced, not their accommodation at the expense of european citizens.
in writing. the european council adopted the amendment to the eu budget for 2015 on 8 october. in particular, it provides for more than €455 million from the 2015 budget to be allocated to the migrant crisis. in particular, €300 million will be allocated to the european neighbourhood instrument (eni), €100 million to the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf), €55.7 million in payment appropriations for humanitarian aid and €1.3 million for the 120 new posts in frontex agencies. it goes without saying that this funding is a bandage on a wooden leg and that a lasting solution can only come through the suspension of the schengen agreements with a view to the reintroduction of internal border controls, as well as the systematic return to the border of irregular foreigners who would abuse the asylum procedure. the report recalls that the increase in the number of refugees and migrants was not foreseeable at the time of the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 , while the front national warned as early as 2011 about the migration flood in gestation i voted against this text. e. other
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the correction of the 2015 budget to finance the immediate measures recommended by the commission under the european agenda on migration. it proposes an increase in commitment appropriations of eur 401.3 million, offset by redeployments of eur 70.6 million identified elsewhere in the budget, i.e. a net increase of eur 330.7 million, for the following measures: eur 300 million to finance the eu regional trust fund in response to the syrian crisis and assistance to third countries hosting syrian refugees; eur 100 million to finance the asylum and migration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf) to provide emergency assistance to member states most affected by the migration crisis; eur 1.3 million for the staffing of frontex, easo and europol. the text is balanced and aims to tackle the causes of the migration tragedy with measures that provide for the stabilisation of countries of origin, the fight against the smuggling of migrants, border security and the reception of refugees in neighbouring countries.
in writing. the report proposes to revise the eu's 2015 budget to increase emergency aid to member states by €100 million and humanitarian aid by €55.7 million to respond to the current migration crisis. these will finance the various european programmes on asylum and migration. this emergency measure is necessary to ensure that the bodies which are called upon today to resolve this crisis in an effective and dignified manner have sufficient financial means to act quickly, given the gravity of the situation. a further €66.1 million is earmarked to support the relocation plan adopted by the european union. despite the heated debate over the actual use of these funds, their release is urgent and necessary. i therefore support this project.
in writing. ‒ the european council adopted the amendment to the eu budget for 2015 on 8 october. in particular, it provides for more than €455 million from the 2015 budget to be allocated to the migrant crisis. in particular, €300 million will be allocated to the european neighbourhood instrument (eni), €100 million to the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf), €55.7 million in payment appropriations for humanitarian aid and €1.3 million for the 120 new posts in frontex agencies. it goes without saying that this funding is a bandage on a wooden leg and that a lasting solution can only come through the suspension of the schengen agreements with a view to the reintroduction of internal border controls, as well as the systematic return to the border of irregular foreigners who would abuse the asylum procedure. the report recalls that the increase in the number of refugees and migrants was not foreseeable at the time of the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 , while the front national warned as early as 2011 about the migration flood in venice i voted against this text. e. other
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 7/2015 on the management of the refugee crisis. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase, hire and maintenance of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire and repair of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture, furniture and appliances, and the purchase of furniture and appliances, including the purchase, hire and repair of furniture, appliances and equipment, and the purchase of furniture and appliances, including the purchase, hire and repair of furniture and appliances. the main purpose of these funds will be to support the asylum and migration fund, the internal security fund, frontex, the european asylum support office (easo), europol and the european neighbourhood instrument. the european parliament congratulated the member states for this budgetary mobilisation in response to the humanitarian and migration crisis affecting the union and all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently facing a major refugee crisis. the commission's resources therefore needed to be strengthened immediately so that it could respond in a responsible, comprehensive and coherent manner. that is why i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 7/2015 which aims to increase the financing capacity of headings 3 and 4 of the union budget. in concrete terms, this budgetary amendment allows for an increase of eur 100 million in the aid provided for the asylum, migration and integration fund and the internal security fund; it creates 120 new jobs in frontex and europol and in the european asylum support office (easo) through an increase in appropriations of eur 1,3 million. it increases the appropriations available for the european neighbourhood instrument by eur 300 million. the vote gives the union the additional resources it needs to deal with the refugee crisis. a new step has been taken, but efforts will need to be continued, in particular during the preparation of the 2016 budget, in order to reach a long-term solution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget which allows for an additional €401.3 million to be allocated to the management of the refugee crisis. the european union must show solidarity and act at international level to find solutions to this crisis and its origins. the refugee crisis management fund is intended not only for eu countries facing major migratory challenges, but also for certain third countries and the three european agencies responsible for these issues. among the third countries, jordan, for example, is currently hosting more than 630 000 refugees, or almost 10% of its population, and lebanon, which is hosting more than 1.3 million refugees, or 20% of its population. the additional budget which has just been released will make it possible to respond in part to the migratory pressure experienced by certain states and to reinforce humanitarian action. europe must continue to work to resolve the refugee crisis, the most serious crisis it has experienced since 1945, and show solidarity.
in writing. ‒ for years, the eu's budget for migration and asylum has been guided by the same leitmotif: always less for integration and solidarity and always more for fortress europe. budgetary increases have been made to the benefit of security policies and to the detriment of the fundamental rights of migrants and refugees. if there is a 'refugee' crisis, it is first of all because of the closure of borders, the almost absence of legal channels and the insufficient funds for reception and solidarity. so it's a matter of political choice. following the commission's proposals on relocation, but also to support first-time host countries inside and outside the eu, the eu's 2015 budget had to be revised. the proposal aims to increase emergency aid by €100 million, humanitarian aid by €55.7 million and to finance the relocation plan by €66.1 million. the gue/ngl group and the greens tabled amendments to put safeguards in place, in particular to ensure that the funds are not used for border security, but these were rejected. the release of these funds is nevertheless necessary, and i have therefore voted in favour of these emergency budgetary measures.
in writing. ‒ mr béla kovács, a hungarian mep, is accused of spying for the russian federation. he's never hidden his ties to russia. but between saying he's a russian spy and saying he's not, there's a chasm. from what we can read on the subject, he is accused of being pro-russian and, as such, is ipso facto an agent of influence in the pay of the kremlin. the deduction is hasty, to say the least. such reasoning could result in many members of parliament being granted immunity from spying for the united states! that's why i voted against this request for waiver of immunity.
in writing. - this hungarian member of parliament is accused of spying for russia: he is clearly the victim of political persecution, and i would gladly call my colleagues to reason if this parliament did not seem irremediably plagued by a genuine anti-russian hysteria. we must put an end to this brussels mccarthyism.
in writing. hungarian mp béla kovacs is believed to be the victim of political persecution accusing him of spying for russia. so i obviously voted against this request for parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ bela kovacs, mep, is accused by the hungarian prosecutor general of conducting intelligence activities against the eu institutions for the benefit of russia. this proposal is aimed at lifting his parliamentary immunity. on the one hand, these alleged charges are part of his parliamentary activity. on the other hand, this member of parliament seems to be the victim of persecution by the hungarian judiciary and the european soviet union. that is why i voted against the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of bela kovacs.
in writing. ‒ the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr béla kovacs was made following the accusation of espionage for the benefit of russia brought against him. i voted against this request because mr kovacs is clearly a victim of political persecution.
in writing. ‒ as a supporter of freedom of expression, i pay particular attention to the lifting of parliamentary immunity insofar as it may be required for purely political and non-judicial reasons and based on tangible evidence. our colleague bela kovacs is accused of spying for russia. however, the information in the file does not allow such a conclusion to be drawn. i am sure that political motives could have led to possible persecution, so i voted against this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ mr béla kovács, a hungarian mep, is accused of spying for the russian federation. mr béla kovács is paying for his patriotic commitment and is no more and no less a victim of political persecution. parliamentary immunity is a democratic tradition, the recent erosion of which speaks volumes about the eu's freedom-threatening state. i voted against it, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr tadeusz zwiefka, on the request for waiver of immunity of mr bela kovacs. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this waiver of parliamentary immunity because bela kovacs is accused of spying against the eu for the benefit of russia. but this is clearly political persecution: the case file is empty and the law criminalizing espionage against the eu was passed late. the fact that mr kovacs is a member of jobbik, for which i have no particular sympathy, is of no consequence to me. i would have voted the same regardless of his political affiliation.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of béla kovács, a hungarian mep and member of the far-right jobbik party. a legal case was launched against him in hungary in 2014. according to classified information, which was widely circulated in the hungarian press, he is suspected of spying for russia and to the detriment of the european union. in view of the suspicions about the case and the leaks it has been the subject of, i am inclined to abstain. parliament considered itself incompetent in spying when it came to the spying done and proven by germany! why should he be competent in cases of alleged, and therefore unproven, espionage, moreover, by a single individual? i abstain to avoid the malice of the anti-russian mob in this parliament and the media. in fact, i do not believe for a second that russia needs a grotesque figure such as a hungarian far-right mp to spy on the european union, which is already being spied on by the united states and the german government, and no one finds anything wrong with that.
in writing. ‒ mr béla kovács, a hungarian mep, is accused of spying for the russian federation. mr béla kovács is paying for his patriotic commitment and is no more and no less a victim of political persecution. parliamentary immunity is a democratic tradition, the recent erosion of which speaks volumes about the eu's freedom-threatening state. the member voted against.
in writing. ‒ hungarian mep béla kovács of jobbik is accused, without any evidence, of spying for russia and parliament is calling for his immunity to be lifted so that he can be brought to justice. this is obvious political persecution, which we cannot support.
in writing. this text concerns a request for waiver of parliamentary immunity made by the prosecutor general of hungary against mr kovacs. the latter is suspected of spying for the russian federation against eu institutions. however, it cannot be entirely excluded that this procedure is of a political nature, given the certain euroscepticism of the member accused, as well as the fanatical russophobia of the pro-european authorities. what about the espionage carried out by german services against france for the benefit of the united states? this opening of the inquiry shows that europe-minds remained frozen in the 1980s, even though the cold war had been over for nearly 25 years. that's why i voted against this waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of béla kovács. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns a request for waiver of parliamentary immunity made by the prosecutor general of hungary against mr kovács. the latter is suspected of spying for the russian federation against eu institutions. however, it cannot be entirely excluded that this procedure is of a political nature, given the certain euroscepticism of the member accused, as well as the fanatical russophobia of the pro-european authorities. what about the espionage carried out by german services against france for the benefit of the united states? this opening of the inquiry shows that europe-minds remained frozen in the 1980s, even though the cold war had been over for nearly 25 years. that's why i voted against this waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of iliyana tsanova as deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the efsi (also known as the juncker plan) has just been set up by the president of the commission to strengthen pro-european union projects.
in writing. - the vote was secret, but you'll guess mine.
in writing. as for the previous recommendation, this vote should lead to the appointment of ms iliyana tsanova as deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments. i voted against this appointment, not wanting to endorse european policy and this body.
in writing. - i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues jean arthuis and roberto gualtieri on the appointment of the deputy director-general of the european fund for strategic investments, which finances the juncker plan. the text approves the nomination of the european investment bank for this post. this nomination was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the appointment of the deputy director-general of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). there is only one candidate: bulgarian economist iliyana tsanova, who specialises in the development of public-private partnerships. i vote against it. she should have been proposed as director instead of the proposed incumbent, but the machismo and the tenderness for the extreme right are the strongest in the european system of pre-bonds. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for the appointment of the deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the relevant parliamentary committees approved the nomination of iliyana tsanova, submitted by the european investment bank. i voted in accordance with the opinion of these committees.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved the appointment of ilyana tsanova as deputy executive director of the european fund for strategic investments. this vote reflects the position of the econ and budg committees of parliament, which approved this appointment in advance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of wilhelm molterer as executive director of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the efsi (or juncker plan) was recently created by the president of the commission and aims to strengthen projects that are favourable to the european union.
in writing. - the vote was secret, but you'll guess mine.
in writing. this recommendation should lead to the appointment of mr wilhelm molterer as executive director of the european fund for strategic investments. i voted against this appointment, not wanting to endorse european policy and this body.
in writing. ‒ this report approves the appointment of mr wilhelm molterer as head of the european fund for strategic investments on the recommendation of the european investment bank. deeply pro-european, which cost him a major election loss in austria in 2008, the 60-year-old has been eib vice-president since 2011. this appointment is clearly a form of political recycling. that is why i voted against this proposal.
in writing. - i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues jean arthuis and roberto gualtieri on the appointment of the director-general of the european fund for strategic investments, which finances the juncker plan. the text approves the nomination of the european investment bank for this post. this nomination was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of mr molterer as director of the european fund for strategic investments. i am hostile to the very principle of this fund, which was set up under the juncker plan. but i do not question the merits of mr molterer, who is merely the cog in a flawed system.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the appointment of the director-general of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). there is only one candidate: austrian economist whilhem molterer was a member of the austrian people's party (ovp), the right-wing austrian party that ruled with the far-right fpö during haider's time. you poor thing! i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for the appointment of the executive director of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). the relevant parliamentary committees approved the nomination of mr wilhelm molterer, put forward by the european investment bank. i voted in accordance with the opinion of these committees.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved the appointment of mr wilhelm molterer as executive director of the european fund for strategic investments. this vote reflects the position of the econ and budg committees of parliament, which approved this appointment in advance.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the right path of climate correctness. it is a matter of distilling fear once again on the pretext of global warming, a warming which is very much exaggerated and whose human origins are not at all scientifically proven. the consequence of this climate alarmism is the deindustrialisation of europe, which de facto leads to an increase in imports and therefore the shipping of large cargo ships hungry for fuel... the hypocrisy is obvious, but as a result of years of ideological and pseudo-scientific bullying by the ipcc in particular, no one dares to take offense, except for a few courageous scientists and journalists. what about those countries which, like the united states, say they are concerned about the climate and impose international constraints which they themselves do not respect? these large climate masses are sources of colossal waste in the service of globalism. today, instead of the defense of the fatherland, the climate is protected and the need for a world government is established! i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ bad tools for bad decisions to avoid challenging globalist dogmas. yet it is the ideology of globalization that is killing our planet. the proposals are counterproductive and harmful: they only move low-polluting production to countries with lower standards, encourage globalisation (more and more trade, therefore transport, and therefore polluting emissions) and deprive europe of its industrial and therefore economic power. if we want to save our ecosystem, we must first relocate our economies. this is a sine qua non. errare humanum is, perseverare diabolicum. it is the same as saying that the devil is a liar.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to determine the position of the european parliament for the 21st conference of the parties on climate change. the pargneaux report calls for a universal and binding target and funding of $100 billion a year for developing countries. the efforts made necessarily involve more global rules, always weighing disproportionately on those who have the most, on europeans. the proposed measures are helping to deindustrialise europe for even more imports and globalisation encouraged by the united states, which hopes to take advantage of european deindustrialisation. i voted against this text and against these harmful proposals which only move low-polluting production to countries with lower standards, encourage globalisation and deprive europe of its industrial and therefore economic power.
in writing. ‒ the report 'towards a new international climate agreement in paris' presents bad tools for bad decisions in order to avoid challenging globalist dogmas and weakening the power of member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to determine the position of the european union at the 21st climate conference in paris. the fight against global warming is one of the main challenges facing the states in the 21st century. to combat climate change, the commission had already adopted a measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% between 1990 and 2030. it is clear that the member states of the union are far from having achieved their objectives in this area, since france is only at -13% while the union is at -18%. as usual, the european authorities want to increase the environmental constraints and standards imposed on our companies in order to achieve their delusional objectives. this policy is helping to deindustrialize our continent in favour of the emerging countries and the united states, which are less concerned about the environment and see it as an opportunity to increase their competitiveness. from an ecological point of view, this policy is counterproductive, since the increase in imports to europe resulting from these relocations increases co2 emissions. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the international climate conference, or cop 21, will be held in paris in december. the aim of this conference is to put in place a new agreement that will have to be respected by all the countries of the world, in order to keep global warming below 2 °c. the environmental situation in which we find ourselves requires immediate action. we must reduce our emissions of polluting gases in order to limit the harmful effects on the planet. however, we must ensure that this objective is consistent with the european union's objectives of growth, competitiveness and employment. i voted in favour of this report. i would stress, however, that pragmatism and realism are required in setting these objectives.
in writing. ‒ mr pargneaux's report aims to achieve a universal and binding target of $100 billion a year in funding for developing countries. i believe that the proposals in this report are counterproductive and harmful, because they only move low-polluting production to countries with lower standards, encouraging globalisation and depriving europe of its industrial and therefore economic power. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report sets out the mandate of the european parliament delegation to paris from 30 november to 11 december as part of the negotiations for the cop21 climate conference. the report also calls for the eu to take action to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases by at least 40% by 2030 and to increase energy efficiency by at least 40% by 2030. the report also calls for a binding agreement and regular review of the commitments of the states. it also makes proposals to fund the green fund, an annual €100 billion fund to help developing countries transition to a low-carbon economy. i believe that the european parliament must send a strong message to the paris conference in favour of reducing global warming, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i supported this text because the new climate agreement must be ambitious, universal and legally binding. the text is intended to encourage all financial actors to refocus their investments to finance a real transition to low-carbon economies. it is important that the european union gives its opinion and gives the guidelines to make this conference in paris a success.
in writing. ‒ france will host and chair the 21st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change 2015 (cop21/cmp11), also known as paris 2015 , from 30 november to 11 december 2015. it is a crucial deadline, as it must lead to a new international climate agreement. i voted for the pargneaux report because i want to see an international agreement that is binding on the greatest number of people, and in particular on the countries that are the biggest emitters. but this agreement will have to be realistic. indeed, just because there is an agreement in paris does not mean that we will have found the solution to climate change and its accompanying disruptions (floods, hurricanes, droughts) that we are observing more and more frequently. i also think it is important not to stigmatise certain sectors, such as agriculture. instead, we must work together to find viable solutions. the summit can only be considered a success if we get concrete solutions and binding commitments.
in writing. ‒ as the cop21 climate conference approaches, the european parliament is taking a stand on yet another attempt to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the introduction of ever more stringent emission targets leads in fact to a shift of these emissions to countries which are less concerned about these rules, such as china, india or the united states, and ultimately generate much higher pollution. the share of pollution attributable to world trade and trade is not addressed, another untouchable dogma. while europe's economic competitors (who are among the world's leading polluters) are happy about this self-limitation of europeans, developing countries also continue to contribute to a situation for which only europeans are considered responsible. this ecological repentance is not good for our economy or for solving the real problems of polluting emissions. i therefore voted against this report, which is part of the mistake that the union repeats at every major climate summit, namely that europe could encourage emerging economies to prioritise ecology over economic development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i want the paris agreement to be as binding as possible, for the benefit of our environment, our citizens and the competitiveness of our companies on the international stage. when we know that the european union accounts for only 10% of global co2 emissions, we are forced to tackle the climate problem globally. the conference should be an opportunity to support new low-carbon technologies by identifying and facilitating their deployment and investment. the companies developing these technologies therefore have a key role to play in the implementation of such an international agreement: they will be the ones to carry out the innovative projects that will reduce emissions. they must therefore be fully involved in this great climate conference. the private sector needs to be particularly involved.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext that a global response to global warming is needed, the european institutions are overreaching by targeting industry. the remedies proposed include, for example, directing investment towards so-called less polluting activities, which would help to deindustrialize europe and lead de facto to an increase in imports (how much pollution from cargo ships crossing the seas?) this also ignores a key reality: the biggest polluters (especially the us) are far behind the eu. and that's where the real pain comes in. in fact, a serious issue such as climate has unfortunately become, in the game of global competition, a weapon for the massive deindustrialization of europeans. the only global climate enterprise that would be valid and fair would be an agreement on targets measured in per capita pollution and a relocation process that would respond to this mad rush to free trade. it is regrettable that such a line is never proposed. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague gilles pargneaux on the paris climate conference. the text calls for an ambitious and legally binding climate agreement, underlining the important role of the eu, speaking with one voice and encouraging other participants to take the necessary measures to stay within the 2°c temperature increase limit. the success of this climate conference is essential to prevent climate change from taking a dramatic turn, with serious consequences in the future if governments do not take their responsibilities today. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it unrealistically pushes the eu to be 'an example' in the fight against global warming. the measures he advocates will help france and the other eu countries to deindustrialize even further, to the benefit of the most polluting countries in the world, such as china and the united states. the americans are cynically encouraging us, because they are using the climate debate as a weapon to massively deindustrialise europeans. only a global agreement would really combat global warming.
in writing. cop 21, to be held in paris at the end of the year, must be concluded with a binding agreement if we are to hope to contain global warming below 2°c. at a time when states are shirking their responsibilities, it is essential that the european parliament should push for an ambitious agreement. the resolution on the road to paris goes in that direction. it proposes that the european union should lead by example and commit to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 and by 80-95% by 2050. unfortunately, this is less than the 50% we proposed, but it is the right direction. the resolution also seeks to ensure that the eu will fully bear its share of the $100 billion a year pledged by rich countries to support the efforts of developing countries. i therefore supported this initiative because it is a strong signal to the negotiators at cop 21: that the european people are ready to commit themselves to the preservation of our planet and that we will not, once again, be satisfied with a minimum agreement in paris after big speeches.
in writing. ‒ parliament is in favour of an 'ambitious, universal and legally binding agreement' for the 21st conference of the parties (cop) on combating climate change. yet the eu's objectives are themselves rather timid. the eu is committed to a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (compared to 1990 levels) by 2020 when it is already on a trend to reduce them by 23% without making any further efforts... similarly, while the text argues that limiting global warming to 2°c above pre-industrial levels is not enough, it does not commit to a target of 1.5°c. finally, it fails to overcome the logic of green capitalism and consequently advocates the strengthening of the carbon market. this text is useless and rather ridiculous. i abstain in order not to discourage parliament's environmental ambitions.
in writing. ‒ under the pretext that a global response to global warming is needed, the european institutions are overreaching by targeting industry. the remedies proposed include, for example, directing investment towards so-called less polluting activities, which would help to deindustrialize europe and lead de facto to an increase in imports (how much pollution from cargo ships crossing the seas?) this also ignores a key reality: the biggest polluters (especially the us) are far behind the eu. and that's where the real pain comes in. in fact, a serious issue such as climate has unfortunately become, in the game of global competition, a weapon for the massive deindustrialization of europeans. the only global climate enterprise that would be valid and fair would be an agreement on targets measured in per capita pollution and a relocation process that would respond to this mad rush to free trade. it is regrettable that such a line is never proposed. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes ambitious targets to reduce the causes of global warming, and in the first place industrialisation. the pargneaux report, which is based on the principle that global warming must be tackled in a coordinated and global way, calls for a universal and binding target and for funding of 100 billion a year for developing countries. this report is full of good intentions, but it is fraught with pitfalls. for example, efforts are measured as an overall percentage, without taking into account pollution generated per capita; the measures requested contribute to the deindustrialisation of europe and thus to the increase of imports, ignoring the pollution caused by cargo ships sailing the seas. moreover, the united states, the world's biggest polluter, having understood that these measures are a weapon for the massive deindustrialization of europeans, supports these measures without participating in them. the only line that can be drawn would be a truly global, binding agreement with targets measured in terms of per capita pollution and an end to the race for free trade to initiate a process of relocation that respects sovereignty.
in writing. the pargneaux report presents proposals for ambitious targets to be set by the european institutions for the international climate conference in paris in december. in addition to the binding targets already set by the commission (-40% co2 emissions), the report proposes funding support of usd 100 billion per year for developing countries, transfer of funds mainly to the detriment of eu member states, and more and more stringent environmental rules for economic activities. the biggest polluters, the united states and china, are far behind the eu, having perceived that the "climate" is a weapon of massive deindustrialization in their favour at the expense of the europeans. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which gives a clear mandate to the european parliament delegation to participate in the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, known as cop21. this is a crucial deadline as it must lead to a new international climate agreement with the objective of keeping global warming below 2°c. i agree with the ambition to reduce greenhouse gases by between 40% and 70% by 2050 compared to 2010 and to get close to zero emissions by the end of the century. however, i believe that the european union should not enter into a binding agreement alone, lest its competitiveness be threatened once again in relation to third countries which do not apply the same measures. i regret that the amendment i voted for, which calls for an agreement applicable to all countries, was not adopted.
in writing. this report is intended to be a roadmap for the european parliament's engagement at the 21st un climate conference in paris very soon. it called for binding legal measures to be included in the final text of the conference in order to achieve the objectives relating to global warming, in particular to keep it below 2°c. it sets three main objectives: 30% renewable energy by 2030, 40% energy efficiency and 40% greenhouse gas reduction by 2020. it also called for a timetable for phasing out fossil fuel subsidies and for a comprehensive financing policy for developing countries to combat global warming. i am voting in favour of this report, which gives an ambitious dimension to parliament's commitment to cop 21 and to the environment.
in writing. ‒ the pargneaux report presents proposals for ambitious targets to be set by the european institutions for the international climate conference in paris in december. in addition to the binding targets already set by the commission (-40% co2 emissions), the report proposes funding support of usd 100 billion per year for developing countries, transfer of funds mainly to the detriment of eu member states, and more and more stringent environmental rules for economic activities. i believe that the french cannot bear the burden of saving the world at their own expense and that the industrial deterrent measures requested will contribute to accentuating the massive deindustrialisation affecting our countries, to more relocations to less friendly countries, to more globalisation and polluting transport flows. the biggest polluters, the us and china, are far behind the eu, having perceived that "climate" is a weapon of massive deindustrialisation in their favour at the expense of the people of europe. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ with a view to the international climate conference 'cop 21' in paris next december, the european parliament wanted to recall the climate challenges and the importance of reaching agreement on a global action plan. i voted for this report and i believe it is important that all the member states of the union and other states commit themselves together and coordinate their actions in order to combat climate change effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european union's strategy for a new international climate agreement to be concluded in paris at the end of 2015. the imminent global threat of global warming is no longer to be demonstrated and it is our duty to adopt ambitious measures urgently in order to achieve the objective of limiting warming to 2 °c. we call on all countries to submit their planned contributions, determined at global level in accordance with their national realities, as soon as possible. we insist that the paris agreement must be legally binding and ambitious. it should aim to phase out global co2 emissions by around 2050. the question of financing is paramount, and we encourage the commission in particular to establish international carbon market mechanisms and to ensure that the least polluting technologies are attractive to investors. the union and other countries are asked to prepare a credible financial package for the periods up to 2020 and beyond. finally, emissions from the transport sector, the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases, need to be reduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the european parliament's recommendations to the member states and the european union for the negotiations to take place at the united nations conference on climate change (cop21). this conference will be held from 30 november to 11 december 2015 in paris. we must act to find solutions to global warming, which is translated into natural disasters with devastating effects. the text calls for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and sets energy efficiency targets. cop21 will only be a success if it leads to an ambitious agreement, with binding targets and concrete measures to achieve them. cop21 and actions on climate change must be an opportunity to strengthen the participation of all economic sectors and non-state actors in the search for and implementation of solutions. this text is an important signal sent on the eve of cop21; the european union must make commitments, and so must its partners.
in writing. ‒ the pargneaux report would like to see a universal and binding objective. unfortunately, these efforts are still disproportionately burdened by those who have the most sense of responsibility, the europeans, in the name of a good cause. the union should therefore be "exemplary". these efforts have a disastrous result and contribute to the deindustrialization of europe in favour of even more imports and globalization, ignoring the pollution caused by cargo ships crossing the seas. the proposals are counterproductive. the biggest polluters, including the us, are far behind the eu. having perceived that "climate" is a weapon of massive deindustrialisation of europeans, in the geopolitical game of the powers, the americans give encouraging speeches. the only acceptable and realistic way of really taking care of our planet would be a truly global agreement calling for an end to the race to free trade and embarking on a process of relocating production, respecting sovereignty. it is obvious that this will never be proposed by the organisers. i therefore oppose this hypocritical text.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the preparation of the 21st un climate conference, to be held in paris from 30 november to 11 december 2015, and is intended to be parliament's roadmap to that end. the report rightly calls for the final text of cop 21 to be legally binding to eliminate global co2 emissions by 2050 in order to keep global warming below 2°c. it advocates a triple target: a reduction of at least 40% of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels, a 40% energy efficiency target and a 30% target by 2030 for renewable energy. however, this report continues to support the european system for trading co2 emission allowances, the so-called 'carbon market', whose inefficiency and dangers are no longer to be demonstrated. these mechanisms of "green capitalism" are only false ecological solutions. because this report does not meet the challenges of the moment and because it is a bit hypocritical in relation to the solutions currently proposed, including the choice of the rapporteur (a french socialist), i abstained.
mr president, just to clarify, and to answer the question of the lack of time and the possibility of moving the debate to the brussels mini-session, i would rather say: let us already make full use of the time available during the strasbourg session. i would remind you that thursday afternoon is part of the sitting, so let us use thursday afternoon as provided for in the treaties. and then we can imagine postponing the debate to brussels.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner moscovici, the european parliament is doing its job. since 2009, it has voted on ambitious reports against tax evasion and tax optimisation. when it can, parliament speeds up its procedures so as not to slow down the march towards better legislation. when a scandal breaks out, it is in the chamber that majorities are created to put pressure on those who have the initiative. what is not acceptable is that parliament is prevented from doing its job. when he advocates urgent transparency, country by country, for multinationals, the member states barely respond, and you, mr moscovici, let the discussion get bogged down. when the tax committee demands access to documents which are essential to understanding who has been doing this all these years, its right is being undermined and, in the end, it is the exercise of democratic control that is being prevented. parliament is not the cash register of other people's arrangements. polite letters are no longer enough. the battle for fair taxation turns out to be a battle for democracy. it would be good if the european commission took action.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for being here. i see the presidency is honouring us with its absence. finally, it is good that you are here so that the commission can continue to press for action, including against the reluctant member states. let us not be fooled, this is one of the issues - the restoration of some order in tax competition in europe - on which the confidence of european citizens in the european union is at stake. after the revelations concerning, among other things, the scale of the tax register system in luxembourg and other member states, we are in a situation of loss of confidence. the text you are pushing on the exchange of information is therefore rightly welcomed. another point i would like to stress, as chair of the intergroup on combating poverty, is that - as the oecd showed in a study last may - the fight against inequality requires better redistribution. if we continue to avoid each other in tax matters, there can be no fight against inequality.
mr president, mr timmermans, in 2009 the lisbon treaty tried to create a direct link between citizens and europe. the reality forces us to admit that it is a total failure. it was said earlier, we are talking about fifty-one, in fact there were fifty-three. two new initiatives were tabled in october. fifty-three initiatives actually, three that have over a million citizens supporting them, and nothing is happening behind the scenes. i didn't say anything. so i have a problem, because citizens are no more stupid than the commissioners or ourselves, so there is a moment when they feel that what they are doing is useless. these campaigns require considerable energy, considerable budgets. the citizens believe in it, they invested in it, but what do they see? they see that nothing works anymore, and we have gone from a large number of initiatives to a ridiculous number. so, listen, i think we have to be clear: you have a possibility, you have an alternative, either you give legislative acts or ...
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by warmly thanking our colleague, mr charles goerens, for his attention and cooperation in the preparation of this report. this is an important report, drawing lessons from the major health crisis that hit west africa in march 2014 and claimed more than 11,000 lives. the ebola crisis has dramatically highlighted the systemic health weaknesses of developing countries. it is therefore crucial that the eu and development actors significantly step up their support to developing countries now to help them build effective health systems. this should be reflected in the level of health infrastructure and equipment, but also in the level of training of medical staff. staff must be trained to respond appropriately to emerging crises. a point which i think is also important to stress in this report is the need to strengthen the governance of developing countries. the more disorganized the country, the less chance there is of coming to the aid of the victims. without good governance and the rule of law, there can be no sustainable development: the two are interlinked. although the number of new cases is currently limited to guinea, with sierra leone and liberia declared ebola-free by the who, we must remain vigilant and work in a coordinated manner with all development actors and affected countries to prevent a new outbreak should the virus resurface.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, we are not afraid of ridicule. if ridicule were to kill, our assembly would be dispersed tonight. given the number of people present, i agree, it wouldn't be too bad. but ridiculous, we are. we are waking up to ebola 10 000 killed for every 25 000 infected, and we are releasing almost two billion, 900 million by the commission. but malaria, with 500,000 people dying every year, 190 million people affected, we don't talk about it. 120,000 lepers die without treatment, and we don't talk about it. and yet, these drugs are easily accessible. they exist and they don't cost too much, they don't cost at all. but that's not our concern, we're not afraid of the belly. here, as everywhere, the list of wishes and recommendations is endless. but what about this marshall plan for europe? who will finance it? a trillion in money creation for the banks, an illusion of a juncker plan for recovery, and for africa, nothing.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating our colleague mr charles goerens on both his analysis and his proposals. at the moment, according to the information i have from these countries - one of my daughters and my son-in-law are working in guinea - there are still two cases of ebola, including at the red cross treatment centre in forécariah. what we are seeing, however, is that the european union and the member states have paid over 1.9 billion euros and the health systems have not been much improved: it is very long to implement. i ask the commissioner to ensure that, within the framework of the european development funds, hospitals and clinics are actually built to deal with these phenomena. similarly, with regard to the imi - the european funds for clinical trials which we have paid for - i think we should ask for conditionality with regard to vaccines. there would no longer be a need for patents to be granted for access to medicines. the last thing i want to say is that nothing is won. we were very surprised to find that in a nurse who had been treated, ebola virus disease has re-emerged or that the sperm still contained the virus six months after a person was treated. at the same time - and i end - we need to restore the trust of the people in the health system because the future of health in these countries is at stake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's procedure is always the same. firstly, the benefits of a single market and competition are highlighted: savings of 110 billion for the single telecommunications market and a 5% increase in gdp by 2020. secondly, in the name of the virtue of the single market and competition, national state leaders and their suppliers are being broken up, or at least weakened considerably, together with their equipment manufacturers. france was - you hear me right - number one in the world with alcatel, since nothing. thirdly, in the name of global competitiveness, new and old players are being destroyed in order to achieve new concentration through unfair competition. fourthly, we let in the outside powers, because the commission is not working for europe - think of the schneider case - so that they absorb the leaders who have survived and, if they cannot, we put in place the transatlantic treaty. yes, we need to end the excessive cost of homelessness, but there is no miracle: if there are fewer benefits, there is less investment in research and innovation. net neutrality is an illusion if the net is in the hands of the united states and they remain masters of the net. it is the states which must remain guarantors of legislation and service; a european intranet based on national intranets is needed for independence and resilience. tomorrow we will have to take back this democratic sovereignty, get out of this europe, precisely for the citizens whom you claim to defend by enslaving them a little more.
mr president, today, 27 october 2015, the european parliament is going to dedicate a new freedom, net neutrality. the stakes are high. it is about allowing every internet user, rich or poor, to access the site of their choice without discrimination, from the smallest personal blog to the largest websites of multinational companies. this equality of access to the internet is necessary. it is regrettable that the text before us is unclear. if it were to be voted on as it stands, it could lead to an outrageous filtering of content on the internet that would compromise citizens' ability to get information. i shall therefore support the amendments which seek to avoid this risk. the federal communications commission guaranteed net neutrality in the united states on february 26, 2015, and the u.s. government has since announced that it will not interfere with the internet. the european parliament must prove today that it is capable of doing the same for europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we are about to adopt a basic regulation with two titles: firstly, the end of homelessness. in june 2017, after years of gradual capping, it will be the end of the tariff surcharges for those of our fellow citizens who cross borders, and i am not just thinking of those who are lucky enough to travel, but also those who travel across borders for professional reasons. i am thinking in particular of frontier workers, and this is a remarkable achievement. the second fundamental element is the incorporation of the net neutrality principles into our european legal corpus. i think this is a considerable step forward and i would like to respond to the concerns and criticisms that have been expressed about the outcome of the negotiations between parliament and the council. does this clearly enshrine a principle of neutral and non-discriminatory treatment of internet traffic? yes, it is. does this text open up obvious loopholes that would allow the principle of neutrality of internet access to be violated? i do not think so, although we can always write a clearer text ex abstracto. but is this possible gain in clarity worth the risk of putting all our achievements to the test? it is on this question, and on this question alone, that our differences will be expressed later. i will not take that risk, because we cannot reopen negotiations once they have been concluded, and at the same time tell the commission and the member states that we will be vigilant both on the implementation of this regulation and on the next texts already on the agenda.
mr president, while summits are being held in europe, migration flows are increasing. in france, the ump mayor of calais, after declaring illegal immigrants to be an exceptional cultural asset, is now reduced to asking some residents to move when they are plagued by aggressive and violent migrants. this is the reality of the anarchy of migration, for which the european union and the servile governments who refuse to take back control of their borders are fully responsible. that is why the valletta summit will not change anything, because it is insisting, and i quote, on promoting legal immigration and strengthening the protection of migrants. in contrast to these irresponsible proposals, i am in favour of the immediate suspension of the schengen agreements and the strengthening of controls at national borders, in order to place migrants in detention centres and to deport them immediately to their country of origin. this is a clear message to migrants: do not land here!
mr president, enough of our impotence, our contradictions and our hypocrisy! let us understand the lessons to be learned from the migratory exodus that continues to gather at our doorstep. first lesson: the union is unable to cope with crisis situations, it is a governance problem. we know how to prepare to stop global warming by 2040. but rescuing, sheltering, taking hundreds of thousands of refugees to our homes, we don't know. we are dealing with a chaotic crisis in a chaotic way. lesson two: financial problems. we are the best at promising $100 billion to cool the climate in 20 years, but the european union cannot afford to increase the number of border guards by a few hundred. we are going to adopt in a few days' time a community budget for 2016 with very little money. europe is here! everyone agreed to take, but no one wants to give, rich countries or poor countries, big countries or small countries. finally, the third lesson: political hypocrisy in all our countries, at all levels and in almost all our groups. it is a contest between our groups over values: some evoke the judeo-christian roots, others the philosophy of the enlightenment and secularism, still others the union of the proletarians in all countries, and all of us, the universal declaration of human rights. but in the speeches of the electorate and in the silence of the polling stations, the defenders of these universal values leave indifferent women and children in our own country to suffer from cold and hunger simply because they are different from us or because they come from elsewhere. it is time to put the minds back in the right place and get europe on its feet. thank you, mr president juncker, for reminding us of this in your words and in your actions.
mr president of the commission, mr president of the european council, on 11 and 12 november you will be in valletta for a summit on migration. but let us not be mistaken, the discussions planned on economic development or the organization of legal immigration channels will be marginal at best, at worst the subject of unworthy bargaining. unable to devise a common approach to welcoming refugees, the european union and, more particularly, some of its member states, have persisted in militarizing their borders and in making dubious agreements with authoritarian leaders. this summit must not be a reinforcement of the khartoum process. the exploitation and trafficking of migrants will not end by subcontracting our borders to others or by launching dangerous military operations against smugglers. the opening of legal and safe pathways for migration, both for migrants and refugees, is an urgent need. to avoid this tragedy, we must change our policies and focus on solidarity.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, europe - in what everyone calls a crisis - seems to be suffering rather than controlling a development that is on its doorstep. who cares about the situation in syria? who says that if we are facing such a massive influx of refugees today, it is because in syria, the islamic state is advancing? who says that we cannot find a solution with mr al-assad? who says we are not able to agree on the relationship between the european union and russia? so, commissioner, tell the president of the commission that he must act, otherwise there is only interdependence between us, there is no solidarity. just as we have made economic and monetary union without an economic pillar, we have made schengen without an asylum policy, without a european office for the protection of refugees and asylum seekers, without a migration policy, without external border protection. i ask the president of the commission to open the debate and to take a strong initiative, not to point the finger at the council's responsibilities, but to enable us to give europe its voice back in this matter.
in writing. on the current situation on migration, the european council calls for the migrants' and refugees' crisis to be dealt with in a 'spirit of solidarity'. the european union must also be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. worse, the council is encouraging the reception of refugees, their employment and access to education until 'they can return to their country of origin', which is a pipe dream since we know that there will be few returns and that immigrants settled in europe will remain there. the only immigration policy is to take a firm stand, like australia, and to abolish all the vacuum pumps and reception facilities that are open doors to the union and its member states. finally, on syria, i denounce the council's attitude, which, in wanting to fight bashar al-assad and the islamic state, remains in total inaction when it would be more urgent to cooperate with the regime in place to stop daesh.
in writing. the council's ambitions must be followed by budgetary decisions. the commission proposed a letter of amendment for the 2016 budget indicating substantial increases in funding for migrants. however, these increases are insufficient because, as the president of the commission said, 'in an exceptional situation, the union must provide an exceptional response'. the next budgetary conciliation will be an opportunity to test the sincerity of the council. only extraordinary funding will make it possible to cope with the crisis. turkey is hosting two million refugees and the council of 15 october proposed an increase of 3 billion in financial aid for that country. however, the commission is still awaiting contributions from the member states to the madad fund set up for syrian refugees. the latest revision of the amending budget provides for a reduction of 2.3 billion in the member states' contributions to the union budget. in the face of our historic responsibility, we must force the council to revise its text, to respond not only to the migrant crisis but also to the other priorities of the union, investment for recovery and employment and the employment of young people in particular.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which had no issues. however, it was interesting to reaffirm our position on european policy in the agricultural sector, in particular the transitional sugar beet regime, one of the two texts concerned by the repeal, through this vote. this is based in particular on the end of beet quotas and the opening of sugar markets in the framework of free trade agreements. these measures will have disastrous consequences, such as the ruin of small producers, the collapse of prices or the oligopolistic concentration of the market around large structures.
in writing. ‒ the report in question concerns legislation which has become obsolete. the repeal of obsolete acts will have no practical impact. however, i took the opportunity of this vote to oppose the eu's sugar beet policy (end of sugar beet quotas, opening of sugar markets under free trade agreements). one of the two texts concerned by the repeal concerns the transitional sugar beet regime. i also keep in mind that sugar quotas will be abolished in october 2017 (just like milk quotas a few months ago). this will lead to a collapse in prices, the ruin of small producers and an oligopolistic concentration of the market around large structures (as in the case of lactis in the dairy sector). at a time when farmers are under pressure, such a policy is extremely harmful. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is in favour of simplifying the cap.
in writing. ‒ the vote was on obsolete acts, i.e. on legislation which had lapsed: it was therefore a purely formal vote with no concrete impact. however, one of the two texts concerned by the repeal concerned the transitional sugar beet regime, with a view to the abolition of sugar quotas in october 2017, on the model of what has just been achieved in march 2015 with the end of milk quotas. this new abolition of quotas will have serious consequences, particularly for france, the leading beet-growing country in europe: falling prices, the ruin of small producers and the oligopolistic concentration of the market around large structures which will have an even greater effect on prices. i therefore opposed it because it endorses the abolition of sugar quotas.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this report is yet another example of the european institutions' fear-mongering. mr siekierski's report dealt with the repeal of obsolete legislation in the context of the common agricultural policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not disrupted by the introduction of new measures, such as the introduction of a new system of quotas for the production of milk and milk products. the report also referred to the repeal of council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry, which would effectively be a death sentence for the sector, which is likely to suffer the same fate as milk producers who have been affected by the end of milk quotas. the eu therefore seems to be choosing once again to favour the monopoly of large multinationals at the expense of local and national production. i therefore took the opportunity afforded me by this small text to renew my support for our agriculture and to express once again my firm opposition to brussels' suicidal policy.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to repeal already obsolete legislation concerning the beet and sugar sectors. the report is therefore a report which will have no real impact on the agricultural community. we nevertheless take this opportunity to reaffirm our position on this matter. as from 1 october 2017, the isoglucose quotas and the minimum price for beet will be abolished. in 2018, producers will also lose a third of their cap subsidies. this policy directly threatens the viability of this sector of activity, a source of job creation and revitalisation of rural areas, which is already facing fierce competition because of the preferential trade arrangements that the european commission has put in place, notably in the framework of the transatlantic treaty negotiations, to encourage lower prices. these measures will ruin small farms in favour of large structures which benefit from economies of scale to cope with the fierce competition from emerging countries. we are absolutely opposed to this ultra-liberal policy which is putting our agricultural model, based on quality and respect for the environment, at risk. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to repeal obsolete cap acts adopted by the council in 2006. this is council directive 76/621/eec, the content of which was taken over by commission regulation (ec) no 1881/2006 and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006, the temporary arrangements of which were applicable only until the 2009/2010 marketing year. i supported the report, considering that for reasons of legal certainty it is necessary to repeal these acts.
in writing. the european commission has wisely chosen to repeal legislation that has become obsolete. the directive on the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and the regulation establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry had both become obsolete, and parliament chose to repeal them. i support any measure which contributes to greater clarity in european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the siekierski report on the proposal for a regulation repealing the directive on the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and the regulation establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. this is a technical text whose purpose is to add a reference to article 114 tfeu in order to ensure consistency with the dual legal basis (agricultural policy and internal market policy).
in writing. ‒ this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament aimed to remove the maximum limit for erucic acid in oils and fats. however, by once again favouring the sugar industry at the expense of public health, the european union is continuing its policy of 'all sugar beet'. at the expense of diversified and therefore balanced production. by introducing a distortion of competition through the favours given to the sugar beet industry, the european union will impose even more lax rules on the whole of europe through its common agricultural policy (cap). while the european union should promote diversity of production and pay attention to public health, the opposite is happening. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is in favour of abolishing sugar quotas, which i am opposed to.
in writing. ‒ in the continuation of the european commission's drive to simplify european regulations and make them more readable and understandable to those who apply them on a daily basis, the european parliament approved the repeal of two obsolete acts of the common agricultural policy. these are technical considerations on the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats. while these changes may seem obscure to the uninitiated, they have the merit of bringing clarity to those who are specialists in the subject. this is exactly what we expect from europe and that is why i supported these repeals without hesitation.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns legislation which has lapsed. this vote will have no practical impact. however, one of the two texts concerned by the repeal relates to the transitional sugar beet regime. in october 2017, sugar quotas are to be abolished, following the example of the end of milk quotas in march 2015. the harmful consequences are foreseeable: falling prices, the ruin of small producers and the oligopolistic concentration of the market around large structures (such as lactalis in the case of milk), which will play an even greater role in the fall in prices. our group therefore proposes to take this opportunity (even though there is no real issue) to reaffirm our opposition to the eu's policy in this sector, which implies: the end of beet quotas, the opening of sugar markets in the framework of free trade agreements. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in the interests of simplifying european legislation. for the sake of clarity, it was necessary to repeal these two texts, which are now obsolete and fall under the common agricultural policy (cap).
in writing. ‒ this siekierski report proposes to repeal obsolete acts under the common agricultural policy, in particular council directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. if this is a vote on clarifying the law, and even if the stakes in this vote are relatively low, i have decided to vote against this text to reiterate my opposition to the eu sugar beet policy.
in writing. ‒ it was a formal vote, with no concrete impact, since it concerned the repeal of texts that had already lapsed. however, they included the eu's sugar beet policy, which i strongly oppose. i therefore voted against the end of the beet quotas, which is scheduled for 2017. as with milk quotas, this new regime imposed by the eu will cause the ruin of our small producers, and the appreciation of large groups who can play happily down on the sugar market prices ...
in writing. - i voted against this bill. this text, which concerns sugar beet in particular, echoes another text on the end of milk quotas. the consequences will be the same: falling prices, ruin for small producers, end of quotas, opening of markets in the framework of free trade agreements. we strongly oppose this eu-led policy.
in writing. ‒ in their interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed that community legislation should be updated and that its volume should be reduced by repealing acts that are no longer applicable. this would, in particular, enable citizens to better understand european regulations. the commission proposes to repeal two acts of the common agricultural policy which have become obsolete, although they are still formally in force. what a feat! this is council directive 76/621/eec on oils and fats, the content of which is included in commission regulation (ec) no 1881/2006 and in council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme in the sugar industry for 2009 and 2010, which has lapsed. i am voting for this text which aims to simplify the understanding of european regulations.
in writing. ‒ the vote concerns legislation which has lapsed, so it is a purely formal vote with no practical impact. however, one of the two texts concerned by the repeal relates to the transitional sugar beet regime. it should be noted that sugar quotas are to be abolished in october 2017, following the model that was just achieved in march 2015 with the end of milk quotas. the harmful consequences are known in advance: falling prices, the ruin of small producers and the oligopolistic concentration of the market around large structures (such as lactalis in the case of milk), which will play an even greater role in the fall in prices. we therefore propose to take this opportunity (even though there is no real issue) to reaffirm our opposition to the eu's policy in this sector, which implies: the end of beet quotas, the opening of sugar markets in the framework of free trade agreements... the member therefore voted against.
in writing. this siekierski report proposes to repeal obsolete acts under the common agricultural policy, in particular council directive 76/621/eec fixing the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. if this is a vote on clarifying the law, and even if the stakes in this vote are relatively low, i have decided to vote against this text to reiterate my opposition to the eu sugar beet policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which allows the repeal of two obsolete acts of the common agricultural policy. this is council directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats, the content of which was taken over by commission regulation (ec) no 1881/2006 and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006, which introduced a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry and the temporary scheme of which was applicable only until the marketing year 2009 and 2010. the only change to the commission text is the reference to article 114 tfeu, in order to ensure consistency with the dual legal basis (agricultural policy and internal market policy) used for the adoption of directive 76/621/eec.
in writing. the aim of this report is to establish a regulation repealing directive 76/621/eec and council regulation (ec) 320/2006 on grounds of legislative obsolescence. the first directive set a maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats, which was subsequently regulated by commission directive 1881/2006, which took over the content of erucic acid, thus rendering the previous directive unnecessary. as for regulation (ec) no 320/2006, it established a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry, which expired in the 2009/2010 marketing year. the regulation is no longer applicable as this campaign has passed. i therefore support this report which seeks to remove these obsolete acts from union legislation, since it is necessary to clarify and secure it.
in writing. ‒ the siekierski report proposes to repeal obsolete acts under the common agricultural policy, in particular council directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. if this is a vote on clarifying the law, and even if the stakes in this vote are relatively low, i have decided to vote against this text to reiterate my opposition to the eu sugar beet policy.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure high health standards and to harmonise practices and standards among member states, the union is amending and improving its legislation. in this context, the european parliament decided to repeal two obsolete acts of the common agricultural policy (cap): directive 76/621/eec fixing a maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and regulation (ec) no 320/2006 on the temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry in force until 2009/2010. i voted in favour of this text, which makes it possible to update the legislation in the agricultural field.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the repeal of council directive 76/621/eec on the fixing of the maximum level of erucic acid in oils and fats and of council regulation (ec) no 320/2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry. some acts adopted a few years ago are still in force, even though they are obsolete. it is therefore for reasons of legal certainty that the commission proposes to the european parliament and the council that they be abolished.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to amend the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the decision will make it possible to subject switzerland to the same obligations as eu members but also to limit the possibility for taxpayers to evade their reporting obligations to the tax authorities. the report also proposes the exchange of information on income, account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. tax transparency and the end of banking secrecy both within and outside the eu is a priority in order to safeguard tax revenues of the states.
in writing. ‒ the end of banking secrecy through the automatic exchange of information at the level of the eu countries, which was enacted in march 2014, had to overcome the reluctance of austria and luxembourg. one of the conditions for the abandonment of banking secrecy by these countries was the acceptance by switzerland of similar measures. following negotiations, a memorandum of understanding between the eu and switzerland was concluded, providing for the exchange of banking information within the framework of the standards proposed by the oecd at international level. as i am against capital flight, i voted in favour of the report on this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to make it more difficult for eu citizens to hide tax money in swiss bank accounts.
in writing. ‒ the end of banking secrecy through the automatic exchange of information at eu member state level, which was achieved in march 2014, required overcoming the reluctance of austria and luxembourg. one of the conditions for the abandonment of banking secrecy by these two member states was that switzerland should accept similar measures, in order not to create unfair competition. the memorandum of understanding, which is the subject of the kofod report, provides that the european union and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents as of 1 january 2018. because i am in favour of fiscal transparency and therefore of the end of banking secrecy, in order above all to preserve france's tax revenues, i logically voted for this text: despite all the good i can think of the swiss confederation, which defends its identity and sovereignty, it is unthinkable to let a country practice banking secrecy at the gates of the eu, unless capital flight is perpetuated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. under this jumbled vocabulary is hidden a common sense measure that will guarantee member states to reduce their tax losses: this is an agreement between switzerland and the eu to ensure the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the principle of tax transparency and the end of banking secrecy are therefore anchored here, which should protect us in the future from all kinds of cahuzac business. the kofod report provides for some key measures, such as limiting the possibility for taxpayers to evade their reporting obligations to the tax authorities or the obligation for the states concerned to report not only on revenues but also on account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. the vote was therefore in favour of this gradual end to tax impunity.
in writing. ‒ in order to convince the austrian and luxembourg authorities to ratify the agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which was signed in march 2014, the european union negotiated with the swiss government the end of bank secrecy, which created unfair tax competition in europe. the agreement with switzerland, which will take effect from 1 january 2018, provides for the automatic exchange of data between the member states of the union and the government of switzerland on income, account balances and capital gains on the sale of financial assets. these measures will considerably reduce the ability of europeans to evade taxation in their home countries and will enable member states to recover tax revenue owed to them. we are in favour of this cooperation, which will limit tax evasion in europe. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to make the exchange of information in the tax field between switzerland and the european union automatic and compulsory, with the aim of making tax fraud and tax evasion more difficult. this agreement, which will come into force in 2018, mainly concerns information on bank accounts of swiss or european residents. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that tax fraud and tax evasion penalise european citizens by depriving the state of its means of action.
in writing. i supported this agreement between the european union and switzerland on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. strengthening our international cooperation is essential in the fight against crossborder tax fraud and evasion. it is therefore important that this agreement be in line with the latest international developments as developed by the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd).
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was to enable the exchange of information on the financial income of non-residents between switzerland and the european union. by endorsing the automatic and mandatory nature of the transmission of information, this report is a real step forward. there are still too many problems of financial opacity linked to switzerland. there is a real need to enable member states to have accurate and automated tracking of information on the financial income of their nationals, without the latter being able to use the swiss system to evade it. in defence of financial transparency and the sovereignty of states over their nationals, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the end of banking secrecy through the automatic exchange of information at the level of the eu countries, which was enacted in march 2014, had to overcome the reluctance of austria and luxembourg. one of the conditions for the abandonment of banking secrecy by these countries was the acceptance by switzerland of similar measures. following negotiations, a memorandum of understanding between the eu and switzerland was concluded, providing for the exchange of banking information within the framework of the standards proposed by the oecd at international level. as i am against capital flight, i voted in favour of the report on this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which endorses a protocol to the eu-switzerland agreement to facilitate and make automatic the exchange of financial information.
in writing. ‒ this kofod report concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the agreement therefore aims to ensure the exchange of information on the financial income of non-residents. even if the text contains shortcomings in terms of the level of information provided, the automatic and mandatory nature of the exchange of information and tax evasion, i voted in favour of this text, which is in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement with switzerland because it guarantees the exchange of information on financial accounts between residents of switzerland and the european union. it thus promotes tax transparency and helps to curb capital flight to switzerland.
in writing. ‒ the agreement, negotiated by the council on behalf of the european union, provides for the automatic exchange of information between switzerland and the european union (from 2018) concerning the financial accounts of their respective residents. this measure will apply, for example, to french residents holding an account in switzerland. the whole of the provisions of this text is part of a logic of fiscal transparency which i support. the end of banking secrecy will also help to stop the flight of our capital to the doorsteps of europe, to a country which does not practice this transparency. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ on 27 may 2015, the european union and switzerland signed an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, aimed at increasing tax cooperation and compliance at international level. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets on which tax has not been paid. but the proposal does not require full and detailed disclosure of account holders' full name, surname and tax identification number. in other words, bank secrecy is maintained! the rapporteur welcomes the agreement, which does not require parliament's opinion to be implemented, but is timidly critical of this point. this is all a charade, i'm not doing it.
in writing. ‒ this agreement confirms the end of banking secrecy in switzerland as of 1 january 2018, already enacted in march 2014 at eu level. this was done despite the reluctance of austria and luxembourg. one of the conditions these countries imposed was that switzerland should accept similar measures, so as not to create unfair competition. switzerland will apply measures equivalent to those provided for in the european texts (revised directive 2003/48/ec). it will thus comply with the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts as required by the oecd global standards in 2014. the information to be exchanged will also cover not only income (interest, dividends) but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets, which significantly limits the remaining possibilities of tax evasion. this agreement is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. this kofod report concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the agreement therefore aims to ensure the exchange of information on the financial income of non-residents. although the text contains shortcomings in terms of the level of information provided, the automatic and compulsory nature of the exchange of information and tax evasion, i voted in favour of this text, which is in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which authorises the council to amend the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation and to take measures to improve the exchange of information on taxation of savings income received in the form of interest payments. the european commission estimates that tax evasion by natural and legal persons established in the union who use financial institutions based in third countries represents a loss of revenue of around eur 1 trillion. concerted action by the member states in this area is essential to combat effectively this scourge, which is the cause of significant losses of public revenue.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is a further step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it provides for the harmonisation of the measures of the agreement signed on 27 may 2005 between the european union and switzerland with those of council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income. this harmonisation will make it possible to obtain more detailed information in the context of the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. this harmonization protocol will improve the capacity of tax administrations to act, which will have more means of correctly and unequivocally identifying fraudulent taxpayers and will be able to extend national tax legislation to cross-border situations.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the agreement therefore aims to ensure the exchange of information on the financial income of non-residents. although the text contains shortcomings in terms of the level of information provided, the automatic and compulsory nature of the exchange of information and tax evasion, i voted in favour of this text, which is in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report approving the conclusion of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the agreement will facilitate the exchange of financial information between the two areas and strengthen trade controls to combat fraud and money laundering.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text which sets out the position of our assembly on the agreement between the european union and switzerland on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which will start from 2018. what will be the practical effects of this agreement, which was signed on 27 may, once it comes into force? the latter will represent a significant step towards ending the banking secrecy of eu citizens in switzerland. this will make it more difficult for a taxpayer to conceal money on which a tax is due. among the new means of action available to member states' tax administrations are the ability to correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned, the ability to administer and enforce tax laws in cross-border situations, and the ability to assess the likelihood of tax evasion. the european union and switzerland must now conclude the agreement within the timeframe for entry into force on 1 january 2017. we will be consulted again in this process. tax evasion is an attack on the values of solidarity on which our social models are based. this agreement is a new stage, which will have to be extended, to bring it to an end.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the conditions for the automatic exchange of information with switzerland on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the council's position is in line with the international standard for the automatic exchange of financial information in tax matters laid down by the oecd. europe must take concrete and effective measures against tax fraud and evasion. an agreement with switzerland was necessary and this project is going in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the end of banking secrecy through the automatic exchange of information at eu level, which was agreed in march 2014, had to overcome the reluctance of austria and luxembourg. one of the conditions for the abandonment of banking secrecy by these countries was the acceptance by switzerland of similar measures, in order not to create unfair competition. the memorandum of understanding (mou) on which the kofod report is based provides that the european union and switzerland will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents as from 1 january 2018. switzerland will apply measures equivalent to those provided for in the european texts. it will thus comply with the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts as required by the oecd global standards in 2014. in addition, the agreement contains certain provisions aimed at limiting the possibility for taxpayers to evade their reporting obligations to the tax authorities by transferring their assets or investing in financial products that do not fall within the scope of the agreement. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it repeals directive 2003/48 on taxation of savings, which is used in conjunction with directive 2014/107 on the automatic exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had proposed in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of repealing directive 2003/48 insofar as it now doubles as directive 2014/107. the question is therefore to clarify the situation.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to vote in favour of this report, which is a logical legal alignment: it was in fact a vote to repeal the old directive 2003/48 which was a double with the new directive 2014/107, which concerns the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. having been in favour of the automatic exchange of information on savings income between the countries of the union, it seemed sensible to repeal the previous legal act which had become obsolete in that it merely introduced the taxation of cross-border interest payments by european paying agents. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to repeal, as from 1 january 2016, directive 2003/48 which overlaps with directive 2014/107, in order to avoid two separate standards coexisting. the first was to tax crossborder interest payments made through european paying agents, while the second is characterised by the automatic exchange of data between the member states of the european union on the income from assets held abroad. although this is an advisory opinion to the council, we believe that this proposal is in the right direction. we are, however, doubtful about the slow progress of the talks on the automatic exchange of this data with the 12 overseas territories of the union. finally, i think it is essential that bilateral agreements with non-eu countries be concluded quickly so as not to create a legal vacuum. i therefore voted for the repeal of directive 2003/48/ec.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the repeal of the savings income tax directive, which will be replaced by the 2014 administrative cooperation directive, whose scope extends beyond income taxation. focusing on the transition period to the new legal framework, the report makes several recommendations to ensure legal certainty for citizens. it stressed the importance of the european commission's monitoring role during the transition. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of repealing the directive on taxation of savings. this procedure is necessary to ensure the proper application of the directive on administrative cooperation, which is more comprehensive than the directive on the taxation of savings received in the form of interest payments. this vote ensures the consistency of european legislation.
in writing. ‒ this report, on the european parliament's legislative resolution, was intended to repeal a 2003 directive on taxation of savings. the commission has also proposed to amend the existing directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies, in particular by amending the directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the commission. i voted in favour of this report, as i am opposed to the legislative inflation which is particularly dynamic in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it allows for the abolition of the savings tax directive, which was replaced in 2014 by a more comprehensive directive. in the interests of simplicity and clarity, it was therefore necessary to avoid two standards applying in parallel to the same situations.
in writing. ‒ this catto report concerns the proposal for a council directive repealing directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings. this is therefore a clarification vote as the directive to be repealed overlaps with directive 2014/107/ec on the automatic exchange of information. although this repeal may lead to some shortcomings if bilateral agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, monaco, andorra and san marino are not concluded quickly, i voted in favour of this text which would allow for greater tax transparency and thus a greater fight against tax evasion, while remaining vigilant on its application.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because it repeals a 2003 directive on taxation of savings, which was used in tandem with a 2014 directive on the automatic exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the repeal of this directive. this directive on taxation of savings (2003/48/ec) has become redundant since the implementation of another directive, 2014/107. this directive establishes the automatic exchange of information on savings income between the countries of the european union. to avoid duplication of powers, we recognise the need to repeal the old directive.
in writing. ‒ under the new directive on the exchange of information - which will be extended to tax records by the ferber report voted at this same session - information on savings income and, more generally, on all tax-reportable financial accounts will now be automatically exchanged. there is therefore redundancy with the 2003 savings directive which provided for exactly the same thing. its repeal will avoid a duplicated communication of this information between member states. the rapporteur made sure that there would be no blind spot, i.e. that all the information that was exchanged under the savings directive would still be exchanged under the new framework. i voted in favour of this report, which follows the most basic logic and has a broad consensus.
in writing. ‒ in 2003, the savings tax directive was adopted to ensure that taxes on savings interest are paid. the revised version of the 2008 regulation adopted in 2014 will apply from 1 january 2016. in the meantime, the 2011 administrative cooperation directive was revised to align with the oecd global standard on the automatic exchange of financial account information and adopted in 2014. it shall also apply from 1 january 2016. the commission proposes to repeal the 2003 savings tax directive so that member states do not have to apply the provisions of the two directives, thus avoiding duplicate data reporting. the report endorses this proposal while ensuring that the bilateral data exchange agreements with third countries (swiss confederation, principality of liechtenstein, republic of san marino, principality of monaco and principality of andorra) established under the 2003 directive are renewed. i vote for it. let us hope that there will be no mistake in this strange attempt to simplify.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to repeal directive 2003/48/ec insofar as it now overlaps with directive 2014/107/eu. the first introduced the taxation of crossborder interest payments by european paying agents, the second the automatic exchange of information on savings income between eu countries, according to the oecd standard. in order to avoid the coexistence of two separate standards, it is necessary to abolish the former. if this is to be argued as a rather technical abrogation, it is necessary that separate bilateral agreements with non-eu countries (liechtenstein, san marino, monaco and andorra) be concluded quickly in order not to create unfair competition. the same applies to the 12 overseas territories of the european union (the channel islands, the isle of man and the dependent and associated territories of the caribbean).
in writing. this catto report concerns the proposal for a council directive repealing directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings. this is therefore a clarification vote, as the directive to be repealed overlaps with directive 2014/107/ec on the automatic exchange of information. although this repeal may lead to some shortcomings if bilateral agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, monaco, andorra and san marino are not concluded quickly, i voted in favour of this text which would allow for greater tax transparency and thus a greater fight against tax evasion, while remaining vigilant on its application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which approves the commission's proposal to repeal the 2003 savings tax directive. this directive applied since 2005 to member states that have concluded separate agreements with 12 overseas territories (anguilla, bermuda, british virgin islands, cayman islands, falkland islands, gibraltar, montserrat, pitcairn islands, st helena, turks and caicos islands) and aimed to ensure that taxes on interest on savings made in these territories are paid. in 2008, the directive was revised to address certain shortcomings. the new directive, which covers a wider range of products, was adopted in 2014 and will apply from 1 january 2016. in its tax transparency package of march 2015, the commission proposed repealing the 2003 savings tax directive so that member states would not have to apply the provisions of the two directives. this is to avoid a situation of double data transmission which would result in an unnecessary burden for the member states.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a council directive repealing directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings. this is a clarification vote as the directive to be repealed overlaps with directive 2014/107/ec on the automatic exchange of information. although this repeal may lead to some shortcomings if bilateral agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, monaco, andorra and san marino are not concluded quickly, i voted in favour of this text which would allow for greater tax transparency and thus a greater fight against tax evasion. i shall, however, continue to be vigilant in its application.
in writing. ‒ following the commitment of the union and the member states to the oecd and g20 action plan on base erosion and profit shifting, the union decided to update the european legal texts. in this context, parliament approved the repeal of the directive on taxation of savings. however, this measure will only be effective if the member states are more vigilant in the application of the texts and measures.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the proposal for a council directive repealing council directive 2003/48/ec on the taxation of savings. however, although i support this repeal, separate bilateral agreements with certain countries must be concluded quickly. it is therefore important that the commission ensures that the repeal of the directive does not create a loophole and that monitoring reports are published to that end.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to repeal directive 2003/48 insofar as it now overlaps with directive 2014/107. the first introduced the taxation of crossborder interest payments by european paying agents, the second the automatic exchange of information on savings income between eu countries, according to the oecd standard. in order to avoid the coexistence of two separate standards, it is proposed to delete the former. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to enable the automated exchange of personal data in sweden. in the context of terrorism and in the fight against crossborder crime, deepening cooperation between states must be a priority. the decisions elaborated in this report go in that direction, thus allowing sweden to transfer data, the council having approved the implementation of the general provisions on data protection.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a council implementing decision is to facilitate the transmission and reception of personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. it is intended to strengthen crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. as this is a decision affecting individual freedoms, strict control of the use of this data is essential. it is precisely for this reason that the exchange of personal data can only be implemented after complying with general data protection provisions. on 13 july 2015, the council concluded that sweden had fully implemented those provisions. as crossborder cooperation is a necessity in the fight against terrorism and high-level banditry, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to deepen crossborder cooperation with sweden, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ this is one of the three proposals for council implementing decisions authorising sweden, belgium and poland to receive and supply personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. in the context of that decision on the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular with a view to combating terrorism and crossborder crime, the transfer of personal data provided for in that decision may take place only after the general provisions on data protection set out in that decision have been implemented in national law in the territory of the member states concerned by that transfer. on the basis of the general evaluation report submitted to it, the council concluded on 13 july 2015 that sweden, belgium and poland have fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. i believe that sweden fulfils the necessary conditions and i have therefore voted in favour of this report. yes, member states must cooperate to combat crossborder crime and terrorism!
in writing. ‒ in the context of crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crime, i supported this report by mrs benova which aims to allow sweden to receive and transmit personal data. this was in particular to facilitate that exchange in the sense that the transmission of data provided for in council implementing decision 2008/615/jha can only take place after the implementation of the data protection provisions in national law. since sweden fulfilled those conditions, there was no reason why this automated exchange of information should not be endorsed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the three proposals for council implementing decisions to allow sweden to receive and supply personal data. this decision will help to combat terrorism and crossborder crime by strengthening crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision aims to facilitate the receipt and transmission of personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. this measure should make it possible to strengthen crossborder cooperation in order to combat terrorism and the large-scale criminal gangs whose organisations are breaking free from borders. such transmission of personal data may only take place after the implementation of the general provisions on data protection set out in the text. however, on 13 july 2015, the council concluded that sweden had fully implemented those provisions. i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that this type of crossborder cooperation is a necessity in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to support the draft council decision on the launch of the automated exchange of fingerprint data in sweden. the transfer of personal data provided for by european legislation can only take place after the implementation in national law of the general provisions on data protection. since sweden has fulfilled the conditions for the exchange of such data, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text on the automated data exchange relating to fingerprint data in sweden. the exchange of fingerprint data between member states, while respecting data protection, is an essential step in strengthening the fight against terrorism and organised crime within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is in favour of efficiency in the fight against crime and terrorism, while at the same time giving states the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved by a large majority the decision on the automated exchange of fingerprint data in sweden. in summary, the aim is to allow the swedish authorities to receive and transfer personal data, in this case fingerprints, to other member states in the context of crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. in the current context of high terrorist threats to european states, the exchange of information between competent authorities is a necessary measure to prevent the threat and is an essential condition for the identification of radicalised and extremist individuals. today, we cannot do without these instruments to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, which are the new scourges of the 21st century. i therefore strongly supported this decision.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision facilitates the transmission and receipt of personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. the aim of this decision is to strengthen crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. this exchange of personal data can only be implemented after complying with the general data protection provisions laid down in the text. however, on 13 july 2015, the council concluded that sweden had fully implemented those provisions. as crossborder cooperation is a necessity in the fight against terrorism, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will allow sweden to receive and transmit personal information in the context of crossborder cooperation to combat terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ this benova report concerns the automated data exchange of fingerprint data in sweden. it is intended to allow that country to transmit and receive personal data. in the context of the deepening of crossborder cooperation against terrorism and crossborder crime, the transmission of such data can only take place after the implementation of the provisions on data protection in national law. sweden fulfils these conditions, as the council conclusions show. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it extends to sweden cooperation on the transfer of personal data to combat terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. - dominique martin voted for this proposal. fingerprint data are personal data and are exchanged between member states to combat terrorism and cross-border crime. for security reasons, only member states with data protection provisions in their national law may be party to this agreement. an evaluation report shows that sweden has implemented these general data protection provisions, so the exchange can be implemented.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to allow sweden to receive and transmit personal data (dna profile, fingerprints and vehicle registration) from its police files to those of other member states. the legislation does contain a clause on data protection and limits on its use, but the shortcomings of this legislation are well known. the cnil was concerned about this legislation. and above all, this case is part of a general trend of recording offenders as well as european citizens or migrants. these files are then cross-referenced, contrary to the very provisions of european law, to determine profiles of each citizen. a so-called big brother to fight terrorism, an argument that snowden has largely demonstrated to be ineffective. it is mainly a means of increasing the amount of data on citizens to make it available to the united states or, more recently, to the german intelligence services. i vote against it.
in writing. this benova report concerns the automated data exchange of fingerprint data in sweden. it is intended to allow that country to transmit and receive personal data. in the context of the deepening of crossborder cooperation against terrorism and crossborder crime, the transmission of such data can only take place after the implementation of the provisions on data protection in national law. sweden fulfils these conditions, as the council conclusions show. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the council's proposal to allow sweden to receive and transmit dactyloscopic data (fingerprints). the aim is to improve the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime in the european union by promoting cooperation between member states. this authorisation shall be granted after the council has verified that all the conditions relating to data protection are met.
in writing. the report proposes to approve sweden's participation in the prüm scheme. the prüm treaty was signed in 2005 with the aim of fighting terrorism and cross-border crime by allowing signatory states to exchange personal data, genetic or digital, on an individual suspected of homicidal intent. council directives 2008/615/jha and 2008/616/jha provide that the participation of a country in this system is conditional on the transposition into national law of measures dealing with the protection of personal data. while i am aware of the challenge and the need for concrete action to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, i am not convinced that such a mechanism will allow effective action to be taken in this regard without endangering the right to privacy. i'll abstain from it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the automated data exchange of fingerprint data in sweden. it is intended to allow that country to transmit and receive personal data. in the context of the deepening of crossborder cooperation against terrorism and crossborder crime, the transmission of such data can only take place after the implementation of data protection provisions in national law. sweden fulfils these conditions, as the council conclusions show. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the text on the automated data exchange for fingerprint data in sweden. i voted in favour of this report because it allows sweden to receive and transfer personal data, such as fingerprints, to other member states in order to strengthen security within the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for fingerprint data in sweden. the purpose of the proposal for a council implementing decision is to authorise sweden to receive and supply personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, in particular to combat terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision aims to authorise sweden to receive and supply personal data. within the framework of this decision on enhancing cross-border cooperation, in particular to combat terrorism and cross-border crime, the envisaged transfer of personal data may take place only after the general provisions on data protection set out in this decision have been implemented in national law in the territory of the member states concerned by this transfer. on the basis of the general assessment report submitted to the council, the council concluded on 13 july 2015 that sweden has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to enable the automated exchange of personal data in belgium. in the context of terrorism and in the fight against crossborder crime, deepening cooperation between states must be a priority. the decisions elaborated in this report go in this direction, thus allowing belgium to transmit data, the council having approved the implementation of the general provisions on data protection.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a council implementing decision is to facilitate the transmission and reception of personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. it is intended to strengthen crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. as this is a decision affecting individual freedoms, strict control of the use of this data is essential. it is precisely for this reason that the exchange of personal data can only be implemented after the member state has given a guarantee that it will respect the general provisions on data protection contained in the european texts. on 13 july 2015, the council concluded that belgium had fully implemented those provisions. as crossborder cooperation is a necessity in the fight against terrorism and high-level banditry, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to deepen crossborder cooperation with belgium, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ this is one of the three proposals for council implementing decisions authorising sweden, belgium and poland to receive and supply personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. in the context of that decision on the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular with a view to combating terrorism and crossborder crime, the transfer of personal data provided for in that decision may take place only after the general provisions on data protection set out in that decision have been implemented in national law in the territory of the member states concerned by that transfer. on the basis of the general evaluation report submitted to it, the council concluded on 13 july 2015 that sweden, belgium and poland have fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. i believe that belgium fulfils the necessary conditions and i have therefore voted in favour of this report. yes, member states must cooperate in the fight against crossborder crime and terrorism!
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision is intended to authorise belgium to receive and supply personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. such transfers of personal data may take place only after the general provisions on data protection set out in this decision have been implemented in national law in the territory of the member states concerned by such transfers. the council concluded that belgium has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the three proposals for council implementing decisions to authorise belgium to receive and supply personal data. this decision will help to combat terrorism and crossborder crime by strengthening crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision aims to facilitate the receipt and transmission of personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. this measure should make it possible to strengthen crossborder cooperation in order to combat terrorism and the large-scale criminal gangs whose organisations are breaking free from borders. such transmission of personal data may only take place after the implementation of the general provisions on data protection set out in the text. the commission notes that the belgian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that this type of crossborder cooperation is a necessity in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to support the draft council decision on the launch of the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium. the transfer of personal data provided for by european legislation can only take place after the implementation in national law of the general provisions on data protection. considering that belgium has fulfilled the conditions for the exchange of such data, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i supported this text on the automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data in belgium. facilitating this exchange of data on dactyloscopic data, i.e. fingerprints, in full compliance with data protection rules, helps to enhance the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is in favour of efficiency in the fight against crime and terrorism, while at the same time giving states the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved by a large majority the decision on the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in belgium. in summary, the aim is to allow the belgian authorities to receive and transfer personal data, in this case fingerprints, to other member states in the context of crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. in the current context of high terrorist threats to european states, the exchange of information between competent authorities is a necessary measure to prevent the threat and is an essential condition for the identification of radicalised and extremist individuals. today, we cannot do without these instruments to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, which are the new scourges of the 21st century. that is why i have strongly supported this decision.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision facilitates the transmission and receipt of personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. the aim of this decision is to strengthen crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. this exchange of personal data can only be implemented after complying with the general data protection provisions laid down in the text. the commission notes that the belgian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. as crossborder cooperation is a necessity in the fight against terrorism, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will allow belgium to receive and transmit personal information in the context of crossborder cooperation to combat terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of sweden, this is to allow belgium to receive and transmit personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. since belgium meets the conditions required by the council, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it extends to belgium cooperation in the field of the transfer of personal data to combat terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. - dominique martin voted for this proposal. as in the previous case, that of sweden, an evaluation report shows that belgium has put in place the general provisions on data protection. so we agree that the exchange should be set up.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to allow belgium to receive and transmit personal data (dna profile, fingerprints and vehicle registration) from its police files with those of other member states. the legislation does contain a clause on data protection and limits on its use, but the shortcomings of this legislation are well known. the cnil was concerned about this legislation. and above all, this case is part of a general trend of recording offenders as well as european citizens or migrants. these files are then cross-referenced, contrary to the very provisions of european law, to determine profiles of each citizen. a supposed big brother to fight terrorism, an argument that snowden has largely demonstrated to be ineffective. it is mainly a means of increasing the amount of data on citizens to make it available to the united states or, more recently, to the german intelligence services. i vote against it.
in writing. as in the case of sweden, this is to authorize belgium to receive and transmit personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. since belgium meets the conditions required by the council, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the council's proposal to authorise belgium to receive and transmit dactyloscopic data (fingerprints). the aim is to improve the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime in the european union by promoting cooperation between member states. this authorisation shall be granted after the council has verified that all the conditions relating to data protection are met.
in writing. the report proposes to approve belgium's participation in the prüm scheme. the prüm treaty was signed in 2005 with the aim of fighting terrorism and cross-border crime, allowing signatory states to exchange personal data, genetic or digital, on an individual suspected of homicidal intent. council directives 2008/615/jha and 2008/616/jha provide that the participation of a country in this system is conditional on the transposition into national law of measures dealing with the protection of personal data. while i am aware of the challenge and the need for concrete action to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, i am not convinced that such a mechanism will allow effective action to be taken in this regard without endangering the right to privacy, so i will abstain.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of sweden, this is to allow belgium to receive and transmit personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. since belgium meets the conditions required by the council, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the fight against terrorism and organised crime within the union, i voted in favour of the report on the exchange of data relating to fingerprint data in belgium. this text is important because it facilitates the transfer of data, which is sometimes key to ensuring greater protection for european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data in belgium. the purpose of the proposal for a council implementing decision is to authorise belgium to receive and supply personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, in particular to combat terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision is intended to authorise belgium to receive and supply personal data. in the context of that decision on the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular with a view to combating terrorism and crossborder crime, the transfer of personal data provided for in that decision may take place only after the general provisions on data protection set out in that decision have been implemented in national law in the territory of the member states concerned by that transfer. on the basis of the general assessment report submitted to it, the council concluded on 13 july 2015 that belgium has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to enable the automated exchange of personal data in poland. in the context of terrorism and in the fight against crossborder crime, deepening cooperation between states must be a priority. the decisions elaborated in this report go in that direction, thus allowing sweden to transfer data, the council having approved the implementation of the general provisions on data protection.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal for a council implementing decision is to facilitate the transmission and reception of personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. it is intended to strengthen crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. as this is a decision affecting individual freedoms, strict control of the use of this data is essential. it is precisely for this reason that the exchange of personal data can only be implemented after the member state has given a guarantee that it will respect the general provisions on data protection contained in the european texts. on 13 july 2015, the council concluded that poland had fully implemented those provisions. as crossborder cooperation is a necessity in the fight against terrorism and high-level banditry, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to deepen crossborder cooperation with poland, in particular in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ this is one of the three proposals for council implementing decisions authorising sweden, belgium and poland to receive and supply personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. in the context of that decision on the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular with a view to combating terrorism and crossborder crime, the transfer of personal data provided for in that decision may take place only after the general provisions on data protection set out in that decision have been implemented in national law in the territory of the member states concerned by that transfer. on the basis of the general evaluation report submitted to it, the council concluded on 13 july 2015 that sweden, belgium and poland have fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. i believe that poland fulfils the necessary conditions and i therefore voted in favour of this report. yes, member states must cooperate to combat crossborder crime and terrorism!
in writing. ‒ like sweden, poland fulfilled all the conditions for being able to transmit and receive personal data in order to cooperate closely with other member states in the fight against terrorism and crime. since poland is therefore covered by the legal framework of council implementing decision 2008/615/jha, i thought it was entirely legitimate to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the three proposals for council implementing decisions to allow poland to receive and transmit personal data. this decision will help to combat terrorism and crossborder crime by strengthening crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision aims to facilitate the receipt and transmission of personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. this measure should make it possible to strengthen crossborder cooperation in order to combat terrorism and the large-scale criminal gangs whose organisations are breaking free from borders. such transmission of personal data may only take place after the implementation of the general provisions on data protection set out in the text. however, on 13 july 2015, the council concluded that poland had fully implemented those provisions. i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that this type of crossborder cooperation is a necessity in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to support the draft council decision on the launch of the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland. the transfer of personal data provided for by european legislation can only take place after the implementation in national law of the general provisions on data protection. considering that poland has fulfilled the conditions for the exchange of such data, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the adoption of this text allows the launch of the automated data exchange on dactyloscopic data, i.e. fingerprints, in poland. the secure exchange of this data across europe is one of the tools needed to combat terrorism in europe. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is in favour of efficiency in the fight against crime and terrorism, while at the same time giving states the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved by a large majority the decision on the automated exchange of dactyloscopic data in poland. in summary, the aim is to allow the polish authorities to receive and transfer personal data, in this case fingerprints, to other member states in the context of crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. in the current context of high terrorist threats to european states, the exchange of information between competent authorities is a necessary measure to prevent the threat and is an essential condition for the identification of radicalised and extremist individuals. today, we cannot do without these instruments to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, which are the new scourges of the 21st century. i therefore strongly supported this decision.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision facilitates the transmission and receipt of personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha. the aim of this decision is to strengthen crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. this exchange of personal data can only be implemented after complying with the general data protection provisions laid down in the text. however, on 13 july 2015, the council concluded that poland had fully implemented those provisions. as crossborder cooperation is a necessity in the fight against terrorism, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will allow poland to receive and transmit personal information in the context of crossborder cooperation to combat terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of sweden and belgium, this benova report aims to allow poland to receive and transmit personal data. it is the council's view that poland fulfils the conditions for such authorization. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it extends to poland cooperation on the transfer of personal data to combat terrorism and crossborder crime.
in writing. - dominique martin voted for this proposal. as in the previous cases of sweden and belgium, an evaluation report shows that poland has implemented the general provisions on data protection. we therefore agree that the exchange should be set up.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to allow poland to receive and transmit personal data (dna profile, fingerprints and vehicle registration) from its police files with those of other member states. the legislation does contain a clause on data protection and limits on its use, but the shortcomings of this legislation are well known. the cnil was concerned about this legislation. and above all, this case is part of a general trend of recording offenders as well as european citizens or migrants. these files are then cross-referenced, contrary to the very provisions of european law, to determine profiles of each citizen. a so-called big brother to fight terrorism, an argument that snowden has largely demonstrated to be ineffective. it is mainly a means of increasing the amount of data on citizens to make it available to the united states or, more recently, to the german intelligence services. i vote against it.
in writing. as in the case of sweden and belgium, the purpose of this benova report is to allow poland to receive and transmit personal data. it is the council's view that poland fulfils the conditions for such authorization. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the council's proposal to allow poland to receive and transmit dactyloscopic data (fingerprints). the aim is to improve the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime in the european union by promoting cooperation between member states. this authorisation shall be granted after the council has verified that all the conditions relating to data protection are met.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to approve poland's participation in the prüm scheme. the prüm treaty was signed in 2005 with the aim of fighting terrorism and cross-border crime, allowing signatory states to exchange personal data, genetic or digital, on an individual suspected of homicidal intent. council directives 2008/615/jha and 2008/616/jha provide that the participation of a country in this system is conditional on the transposition into national law of measures dealing with the protection of personal data. the report calls on parliament to approve poland's participation in this arrangement. while i am aware of the challenge and the need for concrete action to combat terrorism and crossborder crime, i am not convinced that such a mechanism will allow effective action to be taken in this regard without endangering the right to privacy, so i will abstain.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of sweden and belgium, this report aims to allow poland to receive and transmit personal data. it is the council's view that poland fulfils the conditions for such authorization. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ in order to strengthen european action in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the european parliament adopted the text authorising the automated data exchange on fingerprint data in poland.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data in poland. the purpose of the proposal for a council implementing decision is to authorise poland to receive and supply personal data in accordance with decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, in particular with a view to combating terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council implementing decision is intended to authorise poland to receive and supply personal data. in the context of that decision on the deepening of crossborder cooperation, in particular with a view to combating terrorism and crossborder crime, the transfer of personal data provided for in that decision may take place only after the general provisions on data protection set out in that decision have been implemented in national law in the territory of the member states concerned by that transfer. on the basis of the general assessment report submitted to it, the council concluded on 13 july 2015 that poland has fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the amendment on package travel and assisted travel arrangements. the text, which aims to promote as far as possible 'click-through' travel services in order to stimulate the market, has the effect of distorting competition on the market and centralising supply to the detriment of smes. i also regret that the harmonization of legislation, the implementation of the single market and the distortion of competition to the benefit of powerful economic players are not included in this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to reject the council's position which aims to harmonise national legislation on package holidays and assisted or linked travel arrangements. this will of course be done as part of the creation of a digital single market. such package tours comprise a set of services offered to the customer at a fixed price by a tour operator. the report recommends that this activity be promoted on the internet in order to stimulate the market. however, such centralisation of the provision of linked services risks distorting competition to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which will not be able to compete with large groups. i therefore voted in favour of the amendment rejecting the council's position.
in writing. ‒ those who consult votewatch should be clear: i voted for the amendment tabled by the efdd group which called for the rejection of this directive which risks once again favouring the heavyweights in the sector to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ this text proposes to harmonise the legislation on package holidays and 'assisted' or 'linked' travel services. it is a further implementation of the digital single market. the aim is to facilitate the promotion of online travel services. if the intention is good, this system can lead to abuse, in particular by centralising supply which would harm smes to the detriment of large groups (cf. google, which has been guilty of favouring its partners or subsidiaries and thus distorting competition). the associations also pointed to the pressure exerted by the transport lobbies, since the desire to improve actually leads to further harmonisation of the internal market. i therefore voted in favour of the recommendation to vote on the amendment rejecting the efdd in order to avoid harmonisation of legislation and to avoid the risks of abuse of a dominant position and distorted competition for the benefit of large groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment rejecting this text because the claim to improve the legislation on package holidays and assisted travel is a false pretext for further harmonising the internal market when the tourism sector is already very protective of the consumer.
in writing. ‒ as part of the creation of a digital single market, this proposal aims to harmonise national legislation on package travel and assisted or linked travel arrangements. this type of trip is a set of services offered to the customer at a fixed price by a tour operator. the text proposes in particular to promote this activity on the internet in order to stimulate the market. but this report does not give sufficient weight to the possible distortions of the application of this measure. the centralisation of the provision of linked services risks distorting competition to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) which will not have sufficient resources to compete with the most powerful economic players. they also claim to improve consumer protection to speed up the convergence of national laws. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes a series of measures to offer online buyers of 'package holidays' (booking an all-in-one trip) the same level of legal protection as travellers who go through a travel agency. travel organisers will now be required to provide approximate departure and return times and an indication of the nature of any additional costs. travellers will be able to cancel a contract and get their money back if the price increases by more than 8% or if "inevitable" events such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks strike the destination. they will also be able to obtain clear information in advance about the person responsible in the event of a problem. i believe that this report strengthens consumer protection when shopping online, and i supported it.
in writing. by adopting this text, parliament wanted to guarantee a high level of protection for european consumers in the case of package travel contracts and assisted travel services. harmonised rules at european level help to strengthen consumer confidence and promote tourism, a sector of major importance for european economies. in particular, it seemed important to me to fill the legal gaps concerning travel packages and services sold online.
in writing. ‒ the proposal was to promote all-inclusive travel via the internet. by harmonising european legislation to allow for the further development of this method of selling trips, the text seeks to stimulate the tourist economy. while it is beneficial for travel providers to have their procedures facilitated, allowing them to be more efficient on the market, care must be taken that these practices do not lead to a customerism leading to an abuse of a dominant position vis-à-vis local players. nor should this development be done only digitally, without any physical presence. none of these arguments is developed in this text. i shall therefore vote in favour of the amendment rejecting this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the rejection amendment on this text, because the resolution does not protect the consumer and the players against the abuse of a dominant position.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to harmonise national legislation on package travel and assisted or linked travel arrangements, as part of the creation of a digital single market. such package tours comprise a set of services offered to the customer at a fixed price by a tour operator. the proposal proposes, in particular, to promote this activity on the internet in order to stimulate the market. however, this report argues that such centralisation of the provision of linked services risks distorting competition to the detriment of small and mediumsized enterprises (smes), which will not be able to compete with large groups. i therefore voted in favour of the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ the council envisages harmonising legislation on package holidays and 'assisted' or 'linked' travel services in order to facilitate online travel services. this is therefore an increased implementation of the digital single market. while such an initiative may be welcomed at first sight, this system is likely to lead to a number of abuses and negative externalities, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) which will have to cope with increased centralisation of supply which would support large groups (google is known to favour its partners and subsidiaries). the associations are also critical of the pressure exerted by the transport sector lobbies. however, the vote in this case concerns an amendment rejecting the council's proposal in order to avoid abuse of a dominant position and distorted competition in favour of the large groups.
in writing. ‒ the vote was on an amendment rejecting the text. the report aims to harmonize the legislation on package holidays and 'assisted' or 'linked' travel services. while these easily accessible all-in-one travel offers are convenient for everyone, they distort competition in the market for holiday providers. the aim of this text is to facilitate the orientation of our choices in our digital searches, and to focus the consumer's attention on predefined partners, highlighted by sites such as google... all this is done for the benefit of large groups, and logically at the expense of smes, which cannot be aligned on such a centralisation of supply. two factors, which were not discussed, motivated my vote: the implementation of the digital single market, which this report would strengthen, and the situation of dominance and distortion of competition to the detriment of smaller companies, which it would develop. for these two reasons, i voted for the rejection amendment and therefore against the text itself.
in writing. - we voted against this rejection amendment. if this amendment had been adopted, the european council's position would have been invalidated and the procedure would have been interrupted. the text proposes to harmonise the legislation on package holidays and linked travel arrangements. 'linked' means those services which we are looking for when booking travel. in the context of the development of the digital single market, this text would make it possible to facilitate travel services as far as possible. although well-intentioned, this text unfortunately overlooks the risk of abuse: this strategy of 'linked' services allows providers to favour their own partners and subsidiaries, thus distorting competition. we oppose this drift.
in writing. ‒ the 1990 directive on package travel (including transport, accommodation and other services) is to be revised in the light of the development of online offers and the complexity of such offers. the proposed legislation oscillates between consumer protection and harmonisation aimed at limiting 'unnecessary' compliance costs for businesses. in the end, it allows better information to travellers, in particular on remedies and compensation in case of problems. but there are many cases which are not covered by the directive, for example when the transport plus accommodation offer is made by a carrier (as is the case with sncf). moreover, many shortcomings persist: the price of the overall supply may be revised upwards if the price of fuel rises. a tender may be cancelled at the last minute and without compensation if the minimum number of participants is not reached... in short, the directive allows companies to continue to put the important details of their offer in small print, at the very bottom of the contract. i shall abstain in order not to oppose the meagre progress made in this text.
in writing. the council envisages harmonising the legislation on package holidays and 'assisted' or 'linked' travel services in order to facilitate online travel services. this is therefore an increased implementation of the digital single market. while such an initiative may be welcomed at first sight, this system is likely to lead to a number of abuses and negative externalities, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) which will have to cope with increased centralisation of supply which would support large groups (google is known to favour its partners and subsidiaries). the associations are also critical of the pressure exerted by the transport sector lobbies. however, the vote in this case concerns an amendment rejecting the council's proposal in order to avoid abuse of a dominant position and distorted competition in favour of the large groups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on package travel and assisted travel. developments in the travel market, in particular the growing trend of online bookings, called for the adaptation of the directive which dates from 1990. the new directive broadens the definition of package travel to include most travel bookings with different elements (flight, hotel booking, car rental, etc.). it includes 'connected services' for which the user's data is automatically collected between the different stages of the booking by one or more companies with commercial links. the voted provisions will allow travellers who buy package holidays online to benefit from the same protection as those purchased from a travel agency. in addition, it will be possible to cancel a package for free if the price of the package increases by more than 8% or if "inevitable" events such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks strike the destination. three nights must also be offered to the holidaymaker if exceptional and unavoidable circumstances prevent repatriation.
in writing. ‒ the council envisages harmonising legislation on package holidays and 'assisted' or 'linked' travel services in order to facilitate online travel services. this is therefore an increased implementation of the digital single market. while such an initiative may be welcomed at first sight, this system is likely to lead to a number of abuses and negative externalities, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) which will have to cope with increased centralisation of supply which would support large groups (google is known to favour its partners and subsidiaries). the associations are also critical of the pressure exerted by the transport sector lobbies. however, the vote in this case concerns an amendment rejecting the council's proposal in order to avoid abuse of a dominant position and distorted competition in favour of the large groups.
in writing. ‒ due to the development of ict and the emergence of new mobile applications, the production, distribution and booking practices of package travel and assisted travel have changed. in this context, the commission has proposed a new directive to adapt the original european text to new market practices. i have approved these amendments which will provide a renewed legislative framework for this type of service.
in writing. ‒ with package travel having been on the rise in europe for over a decade, it was necessary to update the european legislation on this practice of offering several services, including transport and accommodation, sold in packages. i voted in favour of this directive which seeks to strengthen the rights of consumers of package holidays by offering greater flexibility in cancelling trips, particularly when the price of the package increases by more than 8%, and the obligation for tour operators to provide more information on the rights and responsibilities of travellers. it is undeniable that these measures will help to boost tourism in europe and that is why i welcome the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to reject the council's position on package travel and assisted travel. on the contrary, i wished that this house could give its approval to this text, which usefully modernises a 1990 directive to adapt it to new ways of buying travel and the growing trend of individual online purchases. in two and a half years' time, very concrete rights will apply to consumers who book a flight, a car or a package holiday themselves without going through a conventional travel agency. in particular, there is more information on the rights upstream of the booking process, more protection against bankruptcy, the possibility of taking into account as a condition of cancellation exceptional circumstances, such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks, or the right to cancel in the event of an unjustified price increase (more than 8%). the economic interests of operators, travel agencies and hotels have also been taken into account, with a reduction in some administrative burdens and the need to establish uniform rules throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on package travel and assisted travel. package holidays may involve a flight, hotel reservation or car rental purchased online by a traveller himself. the directive now provides travellers with the same protection as when they use a travel agency. given the growing trend of online purchases, we had to work on modernising the old directive from 1990. the new text, adapted to the times, will strengthen travellers' rights and their access to full information, while taking into account the economic interests of travel agencies, hotels and operators. this report represents the finalisation of an agreement at second reading; states will now have two years to transpose these rules into national law.
in writing. ‒ two areas do not satisfy our positions and are detrimental to the approval of the text: - the harmonisation of legislation and the implementation of the single market, in particular through digital means; - the risks of abuse of a dominant position and distortion of competition to the benefit of powerful economic actors. the text does not address any of these issues. i voted for the amendment rejecting the text.
in writing. ‒ the report in question is a european parliament recommendation on the regulation on the regulation of the activities of internet service providers and the end of roaming charges within the union. in this recommendation, parliament reiterated the council's position. two aspects are worth highlighting: 1. part of the text aims to abolish roaming charges, which are surcharges imposed on consumers when they make calls from abroad. i voted in favour of their abolition from 2017, with the understanding that consumers will not be able to abuse them by purchasing subscriptions in a member state where they are not resident and where those subscriptions are cheaper. the abolition of roaming charges is accompanied by exceptions which will allow operators to limit their use so that they are not penalised; 2. another part of the text is supposed to defend "net neutrality". however, in many respects this is not respected. access providers will be able to discriminate between encrypted and unencrypted files, between online tv and other video platforms, etc. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments which guarantee net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it seeks to ban mobile roaming charges and fair access to the internet. i welcome the vote on this measure, which has been requested for many years by european citizens. it's about time!
in writing. ‒ as regards the second reading, there was no final vote on the text itself, only on the amendments. the overall objective is to review the regulation on the regulation of the activities of internet service providers and, in particular, to end mobile internet roaming charges in the union, which is a good thing. however, the first aspect of the regulation is rightly disputed by many consumer associations. it allows access providers to grant preferential paid streams to businesses. national regulators will have very little room for manoeuvre against this practice. this therefore challenges the principle of "net neutrality" which requires that all flows and speed of access to all sites be treated without discrimination. i therefore voted in favour of all the amendments which were intended to guarantee this neutrality, but which were ultimately rejected by the votes of the epp and s&d members, that is to say by the european union of socialists and democrats...
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation aims to establish harmonised rules to guarantee access to an open internet, protect users' rights and eliminate additional roaming charges. i voted in favour of the many amendments to strengthen net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation aims, in particular, to establish harmonised rules to guarantee access to an open internet, to protect users' rights and to eliminate roaming surcharges. i voted in favour of many amendments to strengthen net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ the report is about the revision of the regulation on the regulation of the activities of internet service providers and the end of mobile internet roaming charges in the eu. the text will give providers the possibility to grant companies better internet access. the proposal therefore calls into question the principle of 'net neutrality' according to which all flows and access speeds must be treated without discrimination. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's maritime transport sector. this will result in horizontal market concentration, leading to a reduction in the number of players to the detriment of consumers' purchasing power. i therefore voted against the rejection of the council's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the creation of a single european market for electronic communications. this text will allow the total elimination of roaming charges from 2017. the cost of telephone communications from one member state to another will then be similar to the cost of national communications. it was the european parliament which, in negotiations with the member states, insisted on the abolition of roaming charges. this regulation directly benefits european citizens and is a major step towards the creation of a coherent and efficient single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of adopting the draft regulation on the single market for electronic communications at second reading. i believe that this text represents an ambitious reform of electronic communications. among the provisions in this text, i welcome the abolition of telephone surcharges for calls within europe. the end of roaming will change our communication habits considerably and make it a little easier for citizens to move freely in our common space. as regards net neutrality, i think the text strikes a satisfactory balance, since it allows the development of innovative services while introducing a binding principle for operators and well-defined traffic management rules. in general, this reform will only be fully satisfactory if it is followed by measures to deploy broadband in the union and, above all, to rethink the liability regime for digital platforms. only such a framework will ensure fair competition between all digital market players.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to ban roaming charges for the use of mobile phones abroad (voice, sms/mms or data) from june 2017. a transitional period has been agreed from april 2016 to june 2017, during which the charges will not exceed €0.05 per minute for voice calls, €0.02 for sms (text messages) and €0.05 per megabyte for mobile internet use. the report also clarifies the rules on the right to access the internet, prohibiting providers from blocking or slowing down access to internet content, applications or services, unless a court decision allows it or if the decision is aimed at preventing network congestion or fighting cyber attacks. the single market for electronic communications is a vital step towards completing the internal market and facilitating the daily life and mobility of citizens in europe, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the adoption of this text by the european parliament completes an important first step towards a single european market for electronic communications. i supported this text, which illustrates the europe of the great projects, the europe we support and encourage. the end of roaming charges, as of 15 june 2017, is one of the flagship measures of this legislation. this measure will then directly benefit european citizens by allowing them to use their mobile phones at no extra cost when travelling in other member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that the union progresses towards the completion of a genuine single telecommunications market. roaming charges and the difficulties of accessing content on the internet from one member state to another are obstacles faced every day by european citizens travelling within the union. this also affects trade between member states. the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council is a good compromise. roaming charges will end in 2017 and the principle of net neutrality is enshrined in the text of the compromise. the european union will have to ensure that the regulation is properly applied by the member states, but it will also have to go further in creating a 'connected continent'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the del castillo report on the single european market for electronic communications (sem). the agreement provides for the end of roaming on 15 june 2017. the cost of calls abroad will therefore from that date correspond to the rates for a national call. whether we are professionals, students or just travellers, we are no longer burdened by exorbitant telephone bills after a visit to a neighbouring european country! this is a victory for the european parliament, since the council, at the start of the negotiations in march 2015, only proposed a free roaming package for 7 days, with 5 megabytes, 5 minutes of incoming calls, 5 minutes of outgoing calls and 5 sms messages each day. also in the context of this report, the agreement creates the first pan-european rules to guarantee net neutrality (or open internet). this agreement guarantees equal access for all without discrimination and prohibits any blocking, slowing down or degradation of the flow. we have also set very strict guidelines for internet service providers, which will have to ensure that users' privacy and personal data are protected.
in writing. ‒ while every citizen can move to another member state, whether for personal or professional reasons, it is unacceptable that within the european single market he should be obliged to pay roaming charges when he crosses a border and is in fact on a new mobile network! now it's settled! the final abolition of roaming by 15 june 2017! after 10 years of negotiation, four successive european laws and long months of hard negotiations! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's maritime borders. let us be clear: if the text does not go as far as i would have liked, it is a real victory if we look back a few years, when it was unthinkable to simply raise this issue. we will continue our fight to do so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. this is good news for all our citizens who still doubted the usefulness of europe: the agreement provides for the end of roaming charges as of 15 june 2017. the cost of calls abroad will therefore from that date correspond to the rates of a domestic call! it is a victory for the european parliament which responds to a concrete concern of all our fellow citizens and i welcome it. the agreement also creates the first pan-european rules to guarantee net neutrality. it guarantees equal access for all without discrimination.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which brings major advances for mobile phone and internet users: the ban on roaming charges and net neutrality. the reduction and subsequent abolition of roaming charges (the additional charges paid to telephone operators when crossing borders) by 2017 is a real victory for citizens' purchasing power and european mobility. net neutrality (ensuring that all data flows on the internet are treated equally) ensures that the internet remains a public space. until now, there has been no binding european rule on this matter. this report now focuses on net neutrality in the 28 legal systems of the union. while the european right was prepared to accept a weak concept of neutrality, the socialists and democrats got the clearest possible definition. we also obtained four safeguards to prevent the "special services" from becoming a doorway to circumvent neutrality. finally, although we would like this text to clearly prohibit the practice of 'zero rating' (this point was excluded from the negotiations), it will provide the means to challenge certain technical practices arising from it.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the report on the european single market for electronic communications, which is a major win for european consumers. the abolition of roaming charges is confirmed for 15 june 2017 and net neutrality is specified. thus, from 30 april 2016 until 15 june 2017, travellers travelling to another eu country will pay a surcharge of €0.05 (compared to €0.19 currently) per minute for their calls from abroad. they will have to pay €0.02 (compared to €0.06) for sms and €0.05 (compared to €0.20 currently) per mb of data. this transitional period will allow operators to progressively prepare for the second and final phase, namely the complete abolition of roaming charges from 15 june 2017. this is a great victory for the european parliament, which has succeeded in making the strongly resistant member states yield to the consumer. finally, here is a concrete realization of what europe can bring to its citizens. more freedom, more modernity, more mobility.
in writing. ‒ this text is a recommendation from the european parliament concerning the regulation on the regulation of the activities of internet service providers (isps) and the end of roaming charges within the eu. parliament reiterated the council's position, and two points should be emphasized: 1. part of the provisions of the report are aimed at eliminating roaming charges, which are additional costs imposed on consumers when they make calls from abroad. i voted for their abolition from 2017, with the understanding that consumers will not be able to abuse them by purchasing subscriptions abroad, in member states where they are cheaper. the abolition of roaming charges is accompanied by exceptions which allow operators to limit this use; 2. another part of the report's provisions is supposed to defend "net neutrality". however, in many respects this is not respected. isps will be able to discriminate between encrypted and unencrypted files, between online tv and other video platforms, etc. therefore, i voted for the amendments which guarantee net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which represents a major step forward for the digital single market. it abolishes roaming charges between member states and ensures a neutral and more open internet.
in writing. ‒ net neutrality is one of the founding principles of the internet, according to which data exchanged on the internet, as well as users, must be treated equally. in practical terms, an isp cannot restrict access to certain sites or favour others by modulating connection speeds. the same logic applies to their customers. the proposed text creates loopholes in this principle, which cannot tolerate any ambiguity. he suggests three cases in which an isp could circumvent this principle: court order, defence against cyber attacks, and traffic management. the commission considers that the measure is selective because it does not comply with the requirements of article 107 (1) tfeu. the internet should instead be seen as a universal service, like the post office, so necessary today for everyday tasks, such as administrative or civic procedures. that is why i have supported all the amendments which have sought to restore the force of this principle.
in writing. ‒ the regulation proposed by this recommendation included in the castillo report aims at implementing harmonised provisions to guarantee access to an open internet, protect users' rights and eliminate additional roaming charges. i therefore voted in favour of the various amendments to strengthen net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the parliament's decision to adopt the council's position, because it does not guarantee net neutrality, i.e. equal access to the internet, which i am very keen on. i am shocked that parliament has rejected the amendments which would have ensured that. once again, powerful lobbies have prevailed over the aspirations of the people.
in writing. ‒ this was a text at 'second reading', so there was no final vote. however, i supported the amendments tabled by our colleagues from the efdd, the gue and the greens, which aim to protect the neutrality of the web, which is called into question by the provisions of the text. it should not be forgotten, however, that this text is part of a wider package, aimed at concentrating the market in a few major players, who can then easily ally themselves with the united states, via ttip.
in writing. ‒ from 15 june 2017, these retail roaming charges will be prohibited. this is a major step forward for the purchasing power of europeans and an encouragement to european mobility. until now, there were no binding pan-european rules on net neutrality: only two european states (the netherlands and slovenia) had legislation. with this regulation, the principle will be enshrined in 28 national legal systems - a major step forward for all europeans. the text is based on a principle requiring equal treatment of trafficking in accordance with the strong position which parliament had defended at first reading. several safeguards have been introduced to ensure that "specialised services" cannot circumvent or cannibalize "neutral" internet access. because the adoption of a single amendment would have risked the collapse of the agreement and would have led us at best to a dangerous new negotiation and at worst to a deadlock if the council refused to extend the procedure, i made a responsible choice: to achieve a solid result now, even if it is not perfect, rather than to project an ideal result which, in the present state of the balance of forces, is not achievable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the del castillo vera report because it represents two major advances in the field of electronic communications: the end of roaming charges and the enshrinement of the principle of 'net neutrality'. with the vote of this report by the european parliament, roaming charges will be severely limited from 30 april 2016 and then abolished altogether on 15 june 2017. in short, voice calls and sms messages from another eu country will soon no longer be overcharged. i am pleased with this achievement because it is a simple and concrete example of what the european union can and must do to make tangible progress in the rights and purchasing power of europeans. finally, the del castillo vera report enshrines the principle of net neutrality in the national legislation of the twenty-eight. this principle ensures that all data flows are treated equally on the internet: no operator will be able to restrict or limit european consumers' access to the service or application of their choice. i approve of this development.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to define the framework for the future single market for electronic communications in which citizens and businesses could access electronic communications services wherever they are provided in the union, without cross-border restrictions and without additional costs, and in which electronic communications networks and services could operate without territorial restrictions. as an essential tool for liberalising the sector, this regulation could nevertheless have affirmed the principle of 'net neutrality', i.e. guaranteeing that telecom operators do not discriminate against the communications of their users, but remain mere transmitters of information. but the term has been carefully avoided. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all types of goods and services, including those which are not covered by the regulation. the text ultimately deregulates everything that can be deregulated, leaving operators free to act as they wish in this new market. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the report in question is a european parliament recommendation on the regulation on the regulation of the activities of internet service providers and the end of roaming charges within the union. in this recommendation, parliament reiterated the council's position. two aspects should be emphasized: 1. part of the text aims to abolish roaming charges, which are additional costs imposed on consumers when they transfer communications from abroad. the commissioner said that the commission had already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy was not undermined by the eu's energy policy. the abolition of roaming charges is accompanied by exceptions which allow operators to limit this use; 2. another part of the text is supposed to defend "net neutrality". however, in many respects this is not respected. access providers will be able to discriminate between encrypted and unencrypted files, between online tv and other video platforms, etc. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments which guarantee net neutrality.
in writing. the regulation proposed by this recommendation included in the castillo report aims to implement harmonised provisions to ensure access to an open internet, protect users' rights and eliminate additional roaming charges. i therefore voted in favour of the various amendments to strengthen net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which allows the introduction of the net neutrality framework and the abolition of roaming into european legislation. from 15 june 2017, calls, sms and internet browsing made from mobile phones or tablets while travelling in the union will no longer be surcharged. i have supported this measure from the beginning of the legislative process, because it will restore purchasing power to european households. from 30 april 2016, roaming charges will not exceed 5 euro cents per minute for voice calls, 2 euro cents for sms and 5 euro cents per megabyte for the use of mobile internet. as regards net neutrality, the new legislation guarantees equal treatment of internet users. however, exceptions are provided for in response to judicial decisions, to combat cyber attacks or to prevent congestion of networks. an operator may continue to offer an improvement in the quality of the internet for certain services, provided that this does not affect the overall quality of the internet.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it puts an end to roaming charges. it is a victory for parliament and for consumers.
in writing. ‒ the regulation proposed by this recommendation included in the castillo report aims at implementing harmonised provisions to guarantee access to an open internet, protect users' rights and eliminate additional roaming charges. i therefore voted in favour of the various amendments to strengthen net neutrality.
in writing. ‒ the union now guarantees a high degree of mobility in the exchange of persons, goods and services. in this context, and in order to increase the performance of the single market, the union has decided to strengthen the openness of electronic communications. the european parliament adopted the report on the single european market for electronic communications. the text provides for the abolition of roaming charges and the strengthening of the european framework for net neutrality. i voted in favour of this text because it is now essential to open up this sector while ensuring a european control framework that protects freedoms without jeopardising the growth of european enterprises.
in writing. ‒ after lengthy negotiations with the council and intensive mobilisation by the alde group in parliament, i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the regulation on net neutrality and the end of roaming charges. one of the measures in this text is to abolish roaming charges between member states from 15 june 2017. the abolition of these charges, which specifically concern the exchange of sms messages, calls and the use of the mobile internet from another member state, is a further step in the completion of the single market. the introduction of the principle of net neutrality would place all users on an equal footing in terms of traffic management. the new directive will benefit businesses, crossborder workers and european citizens who will no longer have to worry about roaming surcharges every time they travel to one of the 28 eu countries. in addition, by requiring internet service providers to provide clear and accurate information on the level and quality of speeds, this regulation meets the citizens' requirements for transparency.
in writing. ‒ the new telecom package is presented as a victory for consumers when it is just the opposite. this package represents a real threat to net neutrality, the founding principle of freedom of expression and information on the internet. while the european parliament initially voted to incorporate this principle into legislation, the final compromise negotiated with the council of the union produced a very different result. not only is net neutrality no longer mentioned, but worse, the agreement allows internet service providers to introduce "special services" and set up traffic management on the internet, threatening net neutrality de facto. the telecoms package also announces the so-called "end of roaming charges". that's a lie. if roaming charges are abolished earlier than expected, loopholes and exceptions in the legislation will allow operators to recover their losses by other means, to the detriment of consumers. the national authorities will have the responsibility to verify and interpret the application of the rules, which could lead to a myriad of national exceptions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the rejection of the telecommunications package, as did 499 of my colleagues. this agreement, which was reached after long and intensive negotiations and which contains many essential points, should not have been rejected. first, the end of roaming charges for calls, texts or mobile internet use in another eu member state (or eea country) from june 2017. the commission has already set ceilings for this and this will be a significant step forward from next april. although the 'end of roaming' will come a little later than hoped, it was much anticipated and is undoubtedly a great victory for consumer users. on the more delicate point of the open internet and net neutrality, we can see the glass half full or the glass half empty, as often. i have decided, and i welcome the fact that we have been able to enshrine the principle of an open internet and net neutrality in law, directly applicable in all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which lays the foundations for a genuine european single telecommunications market. telephone calls, sms and mobile internet use abroad within the european union will no longer be surcharged as of 15 june 2017. the end of roaming charges in mid-june 2017 is a real step forward that will bring european citizens closer together and connect them. this is a major victory for parliament, which has been negotiating since 2013 to guarantee consumers, businesses and smes better communication conditions. in parallel, measures related to net neutrality will also be put in place. this is to ensure that no content or stream is discriminated against or deliberately degraded by internet service providers. the text adopted allows content blocking only for legal, security or network congestion reasons. the abolition of roaming charges and the regulation at european level of an open internet are significant steps towards bringing europe into the digital communications era of the 21st century and facilitating the connection between european citizens. european consumers will be able to derive the greatest benefits from this.
in writing. ‒ the del castillo vera report is a symbol of the european parliament's commitment to digital freedoms. while the council had disfigured this text at first reading with the complicity of the epp rapporteur, we have brought forward an alternative compromise which clearly defends net neutrality and will put an end to the extra costs of data roaming. after seeing data roaming costs fall gradually between 2016 and 2017, consumers will no longer be overcharged by mobile operators from 2017 and will pay for their communications in the european union at the price of a local call. while it was the subject of 28 different regulations, the principle of net neutrality is finally recognized at community level. from now on, internet service providers will have to treat all traffic equally. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. i have chosen to support this report, without amendment, in order to put into effect these gains made after a great deal of struggle before the council, for our fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the proposal for a regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the proposal aims to amend regulation no 1236/2005 of june 2005, which was intended to prevent and prohibit all exports of this type of equipment, by extending the ban to brokerage services and transit. i was opposed to all forms of torture, but i was in favour of the current legislation. i think, however, that it was not necessary to make it more rigid.
in writing. ‒ in june 2005, the european union banned the export of equipment for torture or capital punishment. since then, the marketing of such goods has been subject to restrictions and authorization by the competent national authorities. the report in question seeks to tighten the legislation and extend it to brokerage and transit services. the text also includes in the definition of torture prison overcrowding, lack of medical care or prohibition of all contact with the outside world. although it is opposed to torture, the hardening of the existing system is not relevant. i therefore abstained on the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which condemns the use of torture and the death penalty and the trade in goods intended to inflict cruel treatment. this trade is contrary to the values of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text which is a foolish angelicality, in particular by extending the concept of 'torture' excessively: prison overcrowding, lack of medical care, prohibition of all contact with the outside, etc. will mrs schaake soon claim that deprivation of liberty is an intolerable torture inflicted on criminals held in prisons?
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on this report from the committee on international trade concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel treatment or punishment. while it is indeed commendable to seek to prohibit the transit of goods which are subject to an export and import ban in order to prevent the transfer of elements which would allow inhuman treatment to be inflicted, ms schaake's report does not set clear limits to the concept of torture, which is here extended indefinitely at the risk of running into the limits imposed by the principle of reality in its application. i am also afraid of the temptation to standardize criminal legislation at european level to the detriment of the sovereignty of the member states. i therefore preferred to abstain because of the doubts about the applicability of the text in its present form.
in writing. ‒ since june 2005, european legislation has prohibited the export of equipment whose sole purpose is torture or the application of the death penalty. the marketing of goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture is subject to certain restrictions. the competent national authority shall issue the authorisation. the report recommends that the legislation be tightened and extended to brokerage and transit services. the text also includes in the definition of torture prison overcrowding, lack of medical care or prohibition of all contact with the outside world. we are absolutely opposed to the use of torture. that is why we were in line with the current legislation governing the tools used for this purpose. we do not think, however, that it was necessary to make it more rigid. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ according to the european charter of fundamental rights, the death penalty and torture must be abolished. in the member states of the union, both practices are formally prohibited. one of the union's tasks is to disseminate these principles to the rest of the world. it is therefore important to regulate the trade in goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture. this legislation guarantees trade with third countries which respects european values. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to revise the regime prohibiting the export and import of goods intended for torture and execution and the authorisation regime for goods liable to be misused for torture. the aim is to prevent controlled goods from being used to impose the death penalty by lethal injection on the one hand. we have intervened in the epp group to prevent additional constraints being imposed on european exporters of certain goods which are covered by the proposal but which are lawfully traded. i think that this report is balanced and i have supported it.
in writing. i am in favour of amending the regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it is essential that the export of goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture be strictly controlled. we have therefore given parliament a strong position in this vote for the continuation of the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ this regulation updates the 2005 list of goods and substances whose export is prohibited or subject to customs clearance because they are liable to be used for torture or the death penalty. the list has been extended to include new products and related services, such as online catalogues of these goods. the transit of such goods through the territory of the european union will also not be allowed. finally, certain substances can only be exported to countries which have not ratified the international convention on the abolition of the death penalty after obtaining authorization. it will be up to each eu member state to implement the regulation and thus to grant export licences for controlled goods, to carry out border checks and to decide on sanctions for infringements. the european commission must therefore ensure that, without creating excessive bureaucratic burdens or restrictions on the legitimate use of medicines, the rules are fair throughout europe. in adopting this report, the european parliament reaffirms the importance which the european union must attach to respect for and the promotion of human rights in the world.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a regulation concerned trade in goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture. by wanting to ban these goods in the union, europe is using this opportunity to extend the notion of torture disproportionately. by treating isolation, lack of care and prison overcrowding as torture, europe is going too far. thus, by departing from the original definition, it may wrongly and through member states, which are struggling to improve conditions of detention, condemn. the states must maintain their free exercise of sovereignty. i abstained on this proposal because it is contradictory and contains many amendments which are too general.
in writing. ‒ since june 2005, the european union has banned the export of equipment for torture or capital punishment. the marketing of such goods is subject to restrictions and to a system of authorization by the competent national authority. the report calls for stricter legislation and for it to be extended to brokerage and transit services. the text also includes in the definition of torture overcrowding, lack of medical care or prohibition of all contact with the outside world. we oppose all forms of torture. however, the existing system does not need to be tightened up by the proposed provisions. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it will make it possible to restrict the export to third countries of european goods which could be used to inflict capital punishment, torture or other inhumane treatment. fighting such acts is fundamental and part of my commitment as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the schaake report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it envisages prohibiting the transit of goods subject to export and import bans in order to prevent the transfer of elements enabling it to impose capital punishment, torture or other cruel and unusual punishments. the text states that no derogation could be granted if there are good reasons to believe that the property involved could be used for torture or the death penalty. however, if one can only subscribe to this desire not to participate, even indirectly, in practices akin to torture by the provision of lethal means, it seems to me that the extension of the notion of torture is far too great, which will pose problems when it is applied. to show my doubts, i decided to abstain from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ the schaake report led the european parliament to take a position on the updating of european anti-torture regulations, initially implemented in 2005, which list goods and substances whose export to third countries is either prohibited (electric chairs, etc.) or strictly controlled (certain chemicals, in particular). recent technological developments have made it necessary to update the texts to include new products which could be used for capital punishment, such as electrical discharge sticks. the schaake report, which is undoubtedly ambitious, goes beyond the drawing up of a list of limiting factors. by introducing catch-all and final destination clauses, the text allows the eu to ban the export of all goods that are reasonably suspected of being used to inflict cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment in third countries. such products will not only be banned from export but also from transit within the union. in line with my support for this text in the inta committee, and because i am convinced that our trade policy can contribute to the worldwide abolition of the death penalty, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ european legislation prohibits the sale of goods intended for torture or execution and provides for an authorisation and control system for 'multi-purpose' goods which could be misused for such purposes. since 2011, states also control sales of drugs that can be used by lethal injection for the death penalty, as in the united states. parliament has introduced important amendments to this legislation, such as a ban on advertising for these goods, but also on their transit through the union. in response to the particularly rapid technological developments in this field, the exchange of information between states may make it possible to add new items to the list of goods prohibited for sale. i welcome this text which defends the universal demand for the abolition of the death penalty. i vote for it. i would like to point out that the european union, which claims to defend this principle in particular in its trade and international agreements, does not pay much attention to this when it comes to the united states of america and tafta.
in writing. the schaake report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it envisages prohibiting the transit of goods subject to export and import bans in order to prevent the transfer of elements enabling it to impose capital punishment, torture or other cruel and unusual punishments. the text states that no derogation could be granted if there are good reasons to believe that the property involved could be used for torture or the death penalty. however, if one can only subscribe to this desire not to participate, even indirectly, in practices akin to torture by the provision of lethal means, it seems to me that the extension of the notion of torture is far too great, which will pose problems when it is applied. to show my doubts, i decided to abstain from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the aim of the legislation is to ensure that the ban on the import or export of such goods is respected by strengthening the necessary controls. this is to ensure respect for human dignity, a fundamental value enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the schaake report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it envisages prohibiting the transit of goods subject to export and import bans in order to prevent the transfer of elements enabling it to impose capital punishment, torture or other cruel and unusual punishments. the text states that no derogation could be granted if there are good reasons to believe that the property involved could be used for torture or the death penalty. however, if one can only subscribe to this desire not to participate, even indirectly, in practices akin to torture by the provision of lethal means, it seems to me that the extension of the notion of torture is far too great, which will pose problems when it is applied. to show my doubts, i decided to abstain from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ in order to better control exports and ensure a high level of protection of human rights, the european parliament adopted a text aimed at amending the current regulation regulating trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel or degrading treatment or punishment. i voted in favour of this text because it is important to prevent such commercial practices.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which is in line with the parliament's resolution of 17 june 2010. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the text deals with the new commission proposal and several points are modernised: the list of substances and goods which may be prohibited from being exported is amended; certain services are concerned, such as marketing, financial services or transport services, which may contribute to the dissemination of these goods; and the transit of such products within the union is prohibited. the text also calls for the establishment of a 'coordination group against torture' to coordinate member states' decisions and exchange information. in the end, it is a fair balance that ensures respect for the values defended by the union while avoiding unnecessary constraints on exporters; it should also be noted that a clause will allow the regulation to be adapted to technological and geopolitical developments in the world.
in writing. ‒ the idea of this report is to obtain transparency on practices that have resulted in scandals such as luxleaks. this requires the introduction of automatic exchange between member states' administrations, so that large companies are discouraged from resorting to often legal but unethical practices ('tax dumping'). the ferber report reinforces certain elements of the commission's text. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to combat tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which essentially asks member states to inform their european partners of changes in their tax regulations. this exchange of information is part of the logical collaboration between neighbouring and allied countries.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this text, which aims to strengthen the proposal for a directive on the automatic exchange of tax returns or similar measures between member states' administrations. after the luxleaks scandal, the econ committee of the european parliament wanted to go further in transparency to combat tax dumping. the ferber report proposes, in particular, that the exchange be made retroactively, up to ten years back for rewrites. unfortunately, parliament's opinion has little weight here in the face of the ecofin council, which, at its meeting on 6 october, took a much lighter line in terms of constraints on this subject. the member states' ministers for economic affairs and finance have thus buried this principle of retroactivity, leaving the possibility for the states with the most opaque practices in this field, such as luxembourg, to clean up. in any case, this report has the merit of seeking to improve tax competition within the union and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the luxleaks scandal revealed that many multinationals have benefited from ultra-advantageous tax arrangements in luxembourg through highly paid audit firms. tax dumping, such as in luxembourg, switzerland and ireland, has deprived many member states of considerable tax revenues. the commission has therefore put forward a proposal for a directive aimed at introducing the automatic exchange of information between national tax administrations. the purpose of this proposal is to discourage large groups from using these processes. this text is again in the right direction. nevertheless, we regret that the ecofin council has abandoned the idea of retroactivity in data exchanges. the entry into force of the new legislation has been postponed, thus giving the legal services of multinational firms the opportunity to adapt their tax optimisation methods to the new european legislation. finally, although it helps to intensify the exchange of information between member states, the directive does not provide a better framework for the tax practices of these unscrupulous companies. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the recent tax scandals in europe have revealed many flaws in european taxation. the lack of transparency in this area has led to unfair competition and is a hindrance to the completion of an effective single market. the first victims are the european citizens and smes. it was time to work towards greater cooperation and transparency in tax matters. the mandatory and automatic exchange of information on cross-border tax rulings is a first step in this direction. the agreement will reduce the tendency for member states to engage in unfair tax competition. of course, particular care will have to be taken to ensure that member states comply with this legislation. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the european parliament's negative opinion on the council of ministers' decision to maintain a low level of transparency in tax matters. this decision applies in particular to the tax rescript, which is a procedure allowing citizens and businesses to obtain from the administration their situation with regard to tax law. the council of ministers restricted the scope of the text to crossborder orders and limited the european commission's power of control. parliament wants to make it automatic and compulsory to exchange information on cross-border tax rulings issued by multinational companies. i have supported this report because i believe that this decision is a missed opportunity to strengthen the fight against tax evasion between member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to guarantee an automatic exchange of information on advance tax rulings taken in respect of tax fraud. it is important that the european union takes strong measures to strengthen its fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. i am particularly in favour of the european commission being able to impose sanctions in the event of non-compliance with this legislation.
in writing. ‒ the report sought to enable the establishment of an automatic exchange of tax data between member states' administrations. by encouraging the states to avoid abusing procedures which create a fiscal competitiveness gap, this report is moving in the right direction. although a more watered-down version is certainly welcome (this parliament report is only for opinion), it is important to fight against all forms of tax or paralegal fraud, and this report is a good example of this. i voted in favour of this report because i want taxpayers and businesses to be more honest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in the interests of transparency and efficiency. the text will make it possible to set up an automatic exchange of information between the member states on advance tax rulings in respect of tax arrangements which, in particular, allow them to be taxed at a lower rate.
in writing. ‒ the ferber report is on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the text follows the luxleaks scandal over tax evasion by large companies in luxembourg with the approval of the luxembourg authorities (it should be recalled that mr juncker, the current president of the commission, was the country's finance minister and prime minister for more than 25 years). it is intended that the directive, and therefore the compulsory exchange of information, should apply to all advance tax rulings, whereas the commission is content with advance cross-border rulings and advance pricing arrangements. the commission (which, it should be recalled, is headed by a person who we have every reason to believe was aware of the luxembourg situation) is also proposing that this compulsory exchange should not be retroactive, when parliament wants to apply it to all agreements and rulings still in force today. the text is a step forward in the commission's less-talky stance and echoes the oecd's stance on tax evasion. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it introduces an automatic exchange of information in tax matters. it thus marks progress in the fight against fiscal dumping by certain european states, notably luxembourg.
in writing. - i voted for this text. it aims to bring about full transparency on tax rulings and similar measures. this will discourage governments and companies from using it excessively. the entry into force of this directive has been postponed, which will give some member states (luxembourg, ireland, the netherlands) time to terminate the most 'questionable' agreements. it is hoped that competition will eventually become more open, on rates alone.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, the european institutions finally won over to the renewed fiscal voluntarism: in february, the taxe special committee began its work; in march, the commission presents a first legislative proposal. the commission has also adopted a second directive in june, and at the same time a number of key directives are being revised. the commission has also concluded that the contested tax ruling is not imputable to luxopco. in practice, there was hardly any exchange of rescripts between administrations, which the ferber report aims to put an end to by introducing an automatic exchange of tax information. parliament has reached the most ambitious compromises on this text, which is essential in the face of the council, whose ambition is reduced by unanimity. parliament therefore reiterated its call for the widest possible cooperation: exchange of all remaining rescripts. in addition, it is essential that the commission has access to these exchanges of texts in order to carry out investigations if necessary. i voted in favour of this report because i want to make these demands, which we share in the committee on taxation, public.
in writing. ‒ advance tax rulings are information that the tax authorities give to taxpayers about the arrangements that will be applied to the calculation of their taxes. these decisions are made to provide legal certainty to taxpayers, often by confirming the tax treatment of a large or complex commercial transaction. it is the lack of transparency on these "case by case" tax decisions that allows large companies to artificially reduce their taxation, as seen in the luxleaks case. the text proposes to remedy this by making it compulsory to communicate these decisions to the commission by means of a quarterly report containing precise information. i regret that these reports are not made public and remain in the hands of the commission. nevertheless, it is in the direction of greater fiscal control and i am voting for it.
in writing. ‒ the luxleaks scandal gave rise to a proposal for a directive aimed at introducing the automatic exchange of tax returns or similar measures (validation of transfer prices, various arrangements) between member states' administrations. the idea is to have transparency on these practices, in order to discourage states and companies from using them excessively (fiscal dumping). the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances. the exchange would be done retroactively, up to 10 years back for the rewrites, and their access would be extended. the ecofin council, meeting on 6 october, took a much less forceful position. it was the first version, with parliament issuing only an advisory opinion. the member states have thus abandoned retroactivity and have also delayed the entry into force of the directive, giving the most compromised members (luxembourg, ireland, the netherlands) time to terminate the most questionable agreements and present a polite image. the exchange is still a step forward in these often opaque practices. we must therefore support this report and deplore the fact that ecofin has so far strayed from it.
in writing. the ferber report is on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the text follows the luxleaks scandal over tax evasion by large companies in luxembourg with the approval of the luxembourg authorities (it should be recalled that mr juncker, the current president of the commission, was the country's finance minister and prime minister for more than 25 years). it is intended that the directive, and therefore the compulsory exchange of information, should apply to all advance tax rulings, whereas the commission is content with advance cross-border rulings and advance pricing arrangements. the commission (which, it should be recalled, is headed by a person who we have every reason to believe was aware of the luxembourg situation) is also proposing that this compulsory exchange should not be retroactive, when parliament wants to apply it to all agreements and rulings still in force today. the text is a step forward in the commission's less-talky stance and echoes the oecd's stance on tax evasion. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this report, which marks a significant step forward in the fight against tax evasion, fraud and tax havens. the commission proposes to approve the amendment of council directive 2011/16/eu on the automatic and compulsory exchange of information in the field of taxation. the new directive will make it possible to systematically exchange information on the advance tax returns drawn up by each member state, which may have a direct or indirect impact on the tax bases of other member states. the amendments would thus oblige member states to provide, on a quarterly basis, precise information on these returns, including in particular a description of the criteria used to set the tax transfer prices or a clear identification of the states likely to be concerned.
in writing. ‒ the ferber report is on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. the text follows the luxleaks scandal over tax evasion by large companies in luxembourg with the approval of the luxembourg authorities (it should be recalled that mr juncker, the current president of the commission, was the country's finance minister and prime minister for more than 25 years). it is intended that the directive, and therefore the compulsory exchange of information, should apply to all advance tax rulings, whereas the commission is content with advance cross-border rulings and advance pricing arrangements. the commission (which, it should be recalled, is headed by a person who we have every reason to believe was aware of the luxembourg situation) is also proposing that this compulsory exchange should not be retroactive, when parliament wants to apply it to all agreements and rulings still in force today. the text is a step forward in the commission's less-talky stance and echoes the oecd's stance on tax evasion. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ following the commitment of the union and the member states to the oecd and g20 action plan on base erosion and profit shifting, the union decided to update the european legal texts. in this context, parliament adopted the text amending directive 2011/16/eu on the automatic and compulsory exchange of information in the field of taxation. i voted in favour of this decision because i believe that it is now essential to regulate better these exchanges of sensitive information, in the interests of both citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ tax disparities between the member states of the european union, together with the free movement of capital and people, have encouraged the use of tax optimization and tax evasion by certain multinational firms. these practices are harmful to the public finances of the countries of the union and profoundly affect cohesion between the member states. it is enough to recall the 'luxleaks' scandal, where a member state was accused by the other member states of tax dumping for having benefited from these optimisations by introducing favourable taxation. while these practices are not always illegal, they are intolerable in the light of the values of the european union and the spirit of cooperation which ensues. that is why i have voted in favour of a directive on tax returns which would make it automatic and compulsory for the exchange of information in this field between the countries of the european union. this measure should restore transparency and strengthen the competitiveness of smes by taxing the added value of each actor where it is created.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out the european parliament's position on the automatic and mandatory exchange of information in the tax field. tax fraud and tax evasion remain intolerable and a fair distribution of the tax burden between citizens and businesses must be found. unfortunately, the council did not wait for the european parliament to take a decision, since an agreement had already been reached in the council at the beginning of october; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and it is worth noting that this agreement is less ambitious than the position adopted by the european parliament. for example, the european parliament wanted the scope of the directive to apply to all tax returns and not just to cross-border tax returns. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we must continue these efforts in the area of tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks scandal, pierre moscovici proposed a first package of measures to combat tax dumping. the main one is to make it compulsory to exchange information on tax returns including tax gifts between the member states and the commission, with a retroactive effect of 10 years. the council, at first reading, opted to reduce the retroactivity to five years and refused the commission access to this information, effectively depriving it of any capacity to investigate. the european parliament has reacted: in this report we propose that all tax returns in force be automatically and compulsorily placed on a platform accessible to the commission, without any retroactive criteria. i strongly support this report because the fight against tax dumping is a priority for me. favouring multinationals puts public finances and our social standards at risk. but we must go further by adopting a european tax on multinationals, the only instrument capable of putting an end to the race to the bottom in europe.
in writing. ‒ the luxleaks scandal gave rise to a proposal for a directive, presented in the spring by commissioner moscovici, to introduce the automatic exchange of information between member states' administrations on tax rescripts or similar measures they grant (validation of transfer or assembly prices). the idea is to have transparency on these practices, although most of them are legal, in order to discourage states and companies from using them excessively (tax dumping). i voted for the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking, which was set up in 2007 to define and implement a research programme for the development of key technologies for information systems, has been the subject of criticism, including from the european court of auditors, which expressed doubts about the transparency of its funding. while some aspects have been improved since the first report, others remain. the european court of justice raises questions in particular about the legality and regularity of these transactions. in addition, we have seen a very slow pace of payments with a rate of implementation of payment appropriations after budgetary correction of 69%.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the electronic components and systems for european leadership (ecsel), formerly known as artemis, partly funded by the eu, member states and industry. the purpose of the vote was threefold: 'to give a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013'; 2. approve and validate the accounts of the undertaking; 3. make comments on the management and strategy of the company. the company finances research projects in the field of new technologies. since the first discharge report, several aspects have been corrected or improved. however, two factors still pose a real problem: the pace of payments and the fact that the court of auditors is questioning the legality and regularity of the operations. i therefore opposed the discharge and the motion for a resolution tabled by parliament, which lacks firmness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject matter.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report by mr czarnecki is to give a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking. established in 2007, artemis is a joint venture i.e. a project with eu funding and financial contributions from the private sector whose purpose is to define and implement a research programme for the development of key technologies for embedded it systems in several application areas. however, many questions arise about the functioning of this undertaking: not only is the rate of implementation of payment appropriations, after the budgetary correction, only 69%, but also, like eniac, another joint undertaking with which artemis merged in 2014, irregularities have already been found by the court of auditors, in particular in terms of transparency, especially with regard to the audit strategies of the national financial authorities. i therefore cannot vote for this discharge, given the strong presumptions, and i therefore oppose it.
in writing. ‒ the artémis joint undertaking, like all the joint initiatives, is a project that has been funded by both the private sector and the european union. created in 2007, artémis was to develop a research programme for the development of new technologies concerning information systems in order to increase the competitiveness of the eu member states. the european parliament had already postponed the discharge for the financial year 2013 due to the irregularities found by the court of auditors. this report states that the joint undertaking had taken the necessary steps to regularise their situation. the court of auditors has reservations and is not in a position to rule on the legality of the operations carried out. the commission will therefore assess the activities of artemis since its creation in the context of the 2014 discharge. in this context, the interest in financing this project with european taxpayers' money seems to me to be very small. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes to grant the discharge for the financial year 2013 to the artémis joint undertaking, following a first rejection by the european parliament at its april 2015 session. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the costs of the measures in question. the joint undertaking submitted a new progress report to the european parliament in june 2015. after examination, parliament considers that progress in the management of the assurances provided by the national financing authorities and in the development of a new method for estimating the residual error rate is satisfactory. i supported the conclusions of this report and voted in favour of the 2013 discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors found that the financial situation of the artemis joint undertaking was fairly represented in its annual accounts for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ this second report concerned the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the company, or artemis joint initiative, created in 2007 and developing embedded electronic systems. while the other initiative with which it has merged, eniac, is already facing problems of transparency in its internal budgetary functioning, it seems necessary to re-examine the relevance of this funding in view of its low added value. i am concerned about the rational use of public funds in general, and particularly when they do not seem to be relevant, and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this is the discharge for implementation of the 2013 budget of the artemis enterprise, financed by the union budget, the private sector and the member states. improvements are desirable, particularly as regards the pace of payments. the court of auditors also raised doubts as to the legality and regularity of the company's operations. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ artémis has followed the recommendations of the european parliament and the court of auditors to improve auditing and avoid conflicts of interest in the company. i therefore voted in favour of this report granting him discharge.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this czarnecki report is to give a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking (which is an it systems development company) for the financial year 2013. however, while some of the points in dispute have been improved since the first discharge, other problems persist, such as the legality and regularity of operations, as noted by the court of auditors, or the very slow pace of payments. i have therefore decided to vote against this report, which seems to me to be far too lenient.
in writing. - i voted against this discharge. created in 2007, artémis is to define and implement a research programme for the development of technologies needed for embedded it systems in various fields of application. the discharge for artemis had already been postponed by the european parliament during the previous vote because of various irregularities noted by the court of auditors in terms of transparency, guarantees and methods of estimating errors. artemis promised to correct these mistakes. however, the court of auditors still expresses doubts as to the regularity and legality of the transactions underlying the annual accounts. it also notes a very slow pace of payments. in these circumstances, we oppose the granting of this discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the union. the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking was postponed last april due to shortcomings in the conflict of interest procedure. the company has now provided assurances on this point. but as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for this year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, whereas the union had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the discharge for implementation of the 2013 budget for the artemis enterprise, financed by the union budget, the private sector and the member states. there are still important areas for improvement, particularly as regards the pace of payments. the court of auditors also raised doubts as to the legality and regularity of the company's operations. i therefore vote against the discharge. i shall vote against the motion for a resolution, because i consider the report to be too lenient.
in writing. the purpose of this czarnecki report is to give a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking (which is an it systems development company) for the financial year 2013. however, while some of the points in dispute have been improved since the first discharge, other problems persist, such as the legality and regularity of operations, as noted by the court of auditors, or the very slow pace of payments. i have therefore decided to vote against this report, which seems to me to be far too lenient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the 2013 budget discharge for the artemis joint undertaking. in april this discharge was postponed because the court of auditors had not obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the company's annual accounts. the report submitted in september on the measures taken to improve implementation of the artemis budget satisfied the discharge authorities. the committee on budgetary control has therefore recommended that discharge be granted. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. this process represents the political aspect of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this czarnecki report is to give a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking (which is an it systems development company) for the financial year 2013. however, while some of the points in dispute have been improved since the first discharge, other problems persist, such as the legality and regularity of operations, as noted by the court of auditors, or the very slow pace of payments. i have therefore decided to vote against this report, which seems to me to be far too lenient.
in writing. ‒ following the publication of the new court of auditors' report on the artemis joint undertaking, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the recent report provides ample evidence of the legality and regularity of artemis' accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes to grant the discharge to the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. in april last year, the artemis joint undertaking was refused discharge for the year 2013 due to the absence of a comprehensive policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. since then, artemis has presented a report to parliament on the progress made. in view of artemis' decision to commit itself to reforms in its policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, i voted in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013. while the report shows that the institute has made progress in training its staff, improving its budget planning and monitoring procedures and in public procurement procedures, the court of auditors states that for the second year in a row it has not obtained any reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations. we can also note the low rate of budget implementation linked to the very high turnover of staff. the question of the results and added value of this institute may also arise.
in writing. ‒ this vote gives discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology for the 2013 budget, which is intended to support technological innovation in research, education and the economy, and thus promote economic growth and competitiveness. but in this area, as in so many others, the european union has failed: relocations, mass unemployment, deindustrialisation, etc. other important points also remain to be corrected, notably the low rate of budget implementation linked to the very high turnover of staff. the court of auditors also questions the legality and regularity of the operations of the institute. i therefore opposed the discharge and voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted for it as the committee recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the discharge for the 2013 financial year in respect of the european institute of innovation and technology. the first report on this institute, which is supposed to support technological innovation in the field of research, education and the economy, had already pointed out the opacity of the subsidy operations carried out by this company. the rapporteur says that there has been progress in the training of staff and in the procedures for planning and monitoring the implementation of the budget, but the court of auditors remains concerned, as it has not received any reasonable assurance or evidence as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations. it should be noted that audit certificates are currently issued by firms contracted by the direct beneficiaries of these grants, which would cover at least 87% of the grant expenditure. these disturbing practices therefore prevented any vote in favour of granting discharge.
in writing. ‒ the european institute of innovation and technology is supposed to promote the competitiveness of the eu member states by supporting innovation and research. despite serious improvements in the training of employees and in compliance with public procurement procedures, the court of auditors states for the second year in a row that it is not in a position to rule on the legality and regularity of operations involving 87% of grant expenditure. however, audit certificates are issued by independent firms. in this context, the interest in financing this project with european taxpayers' money seems to me to be very small. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes to grant the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge for the financial year 2013, following a first rejection by the european parliament at its april 2015 session. parliament had pointed out an error rate for expenditure above the acceptable threshold, resulting from audit problems and significant errors affecting public procurement. the quality of the ex ante and ex post checks was also considered insufficient. the european institute of innovation and technology presented a new progress report to parliament in june 2015. after examination, parliament considered that progress in ex ante and ex post audits, public procurement procedures and the obtaining of audit certificates was satisfactory. i supported the conclusions of this report and voted in favour of the 2013 discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the director of the european institute of innovation and technology discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2013. this decision was justified in particular by the improvement of the procedures for planning and monitoring the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology, which is supposed to promote growth and foster competitiveness. this joint initiative, which for the second year in a row has been denied the confidence of the court of auditors in the regularity of grant operations, raises the question of the relevance of this funding. i am concerned about the rational use of public funds in general, and particularly when they have been explicitly called into question by the court of auditors, and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this is the discharge for implementation of the 2013 budget of the european institute of innovation and technology, which is supposed to support technological innovation in the field of research, education and the economy. improvements are desirable, particularly as regards the low rate of budget implementation linked to the very high turnover of staff. the court of auditors also questions the legality and regularity of the operations of the institute. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the eit had already been the subject of a deferral of discharge by the european parliament. this report gives discharge following major improvements made by the institute in its budget and procedures.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this czarnecki report is to grant discharge for the 2013 financial year to the european institute of innovation and technology, which is supposed to support technological innovation in the fields of research, education and the economy. as with the artemis joint undertaking, some aspects have been improved. however, others, such as the low rate of budget implementation due to the very high turnover of staff, persist. the court of auditors' reluctance to consider the legality and regularity of certain operations has also given rise to my opposition to this text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted against it. the institute is supposed to support technological innovation in the fields of research, education and economics. its objective is to promote economic growth and competitiveness. the discharge was postponed by the european parliament in the previous vote and, according to the report, the institute made progress in the training of staff, in public procurement procedures and in its budget planning and monitoring procedures. however, for the second year in a row, the court of auditors states that it has not obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations. in these circumstances, we oppose the granting of this discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. the discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) joint undertaking was postponed last april due to the lack of reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the grant operations of the institute. the company has now fulfilled these requirements, but as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for that year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the discharge is in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget of the european institute of innovation and technology, which is intended to support technological innovation in the field of research, education and the economy. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the budgetary procedure. the court of auditors also questions the legality and regularity of the operations of the institute. the member therefore votes against the discharge. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism.
in writing. the purpose of this czarnecki report is to grant discharge for the 2013 financial year in respect of the european institute of innovation and technology, which is intended to support technological innovation in the fields of research, education and the economy. as with the artemis joint undertaking, some aspects have been improved. however, others, such as the low rate of budget implementation due to the very high turnover of staff, persist. the court of auditors' reluctance to consider the legality and regularity of certain operations has also given rise to my opposition to this text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which authorises the 2013 discharge for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). in april this discharge was postponed because, for the second year in a row, the court of auditors had not obtained reasonable assurance as to the legality and regularity of the granting operations of this institute. the report also highlighted irregularities in the procurement procedures. since the postponement of the discharge, the eit has presented a new strategy and shown a real willingness to engage in dialogue with the european parliament. the report which he submitted on the measures taken to improve the implementation of his budget satisfied the discharge authorities. the committee on budgetary control has therefore recommended that the accounts be closed. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. this process represents the political aspect of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this czarnecki report is to grant discharge for the 2013 financial year to the european institute of innovation and technology, which is supposed to support technological innovation in the fields of research, education and the economy. as in the case of the artemis joint undertaking, some points have improved, but others, such as the low budget implementation rate due to the very high staff turnover, persist. the court of auditors' reluctance to consider the legality and regularity of certain operations has also given rise to my opposition to this text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in april 2015, the court of auditors expressed doubts about the legality and regularity of the eit's grant operations, in particular in relation to procurement procedures. however, the eit has implemented a new strategy for more regular and rigorous budget implementation. in this new context, the european parliament approved the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. ‒ one of the founding powers of our parliament is its budgetary power. we approve the budget and ensure that public funds are used properly, in particular by means of budgetary discharge. last april, we postponed the approval of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) expenditure for the year 2013, due to some questions about the relevance of the audits. the eit had to demonstrate that its verification of payments and procurement procedures had been improved. we have received information on the legality and regularity of grant operations and on the improvement of the planning and monitoring procedures for budget implementation. that is why i voted in favour of this text granting budgetary discharge for the eit's accounts in 2013.
in writing. ‒ on 29 april, the european parliament decided to postpone its decision to grant discharge to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2013. parliament had identified in particular certain shortcomings concerning audit problems and certain errors affecting public procurement. following these failures, the eit provided parliament on 29 june with a new report providing new elements and some explanations. new audits were carried out, public procurement procedures were revised and certain improvements were made in the management of working holidays. in view of these new elements, i supported this report granting the 2013 discharge to the european institute of innovation and technology.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking, which was set up in 2007 to bring together european research in nanoelectronics, has been the subject of criticism, including from the european court of auditors, which expressed doubts about the transparency of its funding. some of the points have been improved since the first report, but others remain. the european court of justice raises questions in particular about the legality and regularity of these transactions. furthermore, we believe that an assessment of the company's activities since 2007 is necessary. the commission will only be involved in the 2014 discharge. we can therefore ask ourselves what the results and added value of this joint initiative are and why it is worth financing it from the european budget.
in writing. ‒ this vote gives a discharge to the eniac joint undertaking for the implementation of its 2013 budget, which is financed by the eu budget, the member states and private sector actors. the aim of the joint venture is to promote the development of nanoelectric systems. the subject of the vote was threefold: 'i give the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013'; 2. approve and validate the accounts of the undertaking; 3. make comments on the management and strategy of the company. i consider it necessary to evaluate the activities of eniac since 2007. i therefore voted against the discharge and against the report, which does not go far enough.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject matter.
in writing. ‒ like its sister company artemis, the eniac joint undertaking suffers from a high degree of opacity regarding its audit strategies. eniac, which has been aiming to bring together european research in nanoelectronics since its creation in 2007, receives 65% of its funding from the private sector, while the contribution from member states must not exceed 1.8%. it should be recalled that last april parliament had already postponed the discharge for eniac because of the concerns raised by the court of auditors, in particular concerning irregularities in the methods of estimating the error rate, but also, and above all, doubts about the regularity and legality of the transactions underlying the annual accounts. it is also indicative that the commission wishes to carry out an evaluation of the activities of eniac, even if this will not take place before the 2014 discharge. in any event, these uncertainties about this joint venture, whether they relate to its added value and/or its management, have led me to reject the discharge.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking, like all the joint initiatives, is a project that has been funded by the private sector, the european union and the member states (1.8% i.e. the legal limit). established in 2007, eniac was intended to be at the forefront of research in the field of nanoelectronics. the european parliament had already postponed the discharge for the financial year 2013 in april due to the irregularities found by the court of auditors. this report states that the joint undertaking had taken the necessary steps to regularise their situation. the court of auditors has reservations and is not in a position to rule on the legality of the operations carried out. the commission will therefore assess the activities of eniac since its establishment in the context of the 2014 discharge. in this context, the interest in financing this project with european taxpayers' money seems to me very small. i therefore voted against the discharge.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes to grant the discharge for the financial year 2013 to the eniac joint undertaking, following a first rejection by the european parliament at its april 2015 session. this decision was based on the opinion of the court of auditors, which for the third year in a row had issued a reservation calling into question the ex post audit strategy on the legality and regularity of the operations of the eniac joint undertaking. the commission presented a progress report to parliament in june 2015. after consideration, the rapporteur considers the revision of the audit framework and ex post audit strategies to be satisfactory. supporting the conclusions of this report, i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. efforts have been made following the european parliament's recent decision to postpone this discharge. the eniac joint undertaking has worked to develop an action plan to address the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ this second report concerned the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint initiative, set up in 2007, in the nanoelectronics sector. while the collective initiative with which it merged, artemis, is already facing problems of transparency in its internal budgetary functioning, it seems necessary to re-examine the relevance of this funding in view of its low added value. i am concerned about the rational use of public funds in general, and particularly when they do not seem relevant to me, and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this is the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the eniac joint undertaking, funded by the eu budget, the private sector and the member states. i believe that an evaluation of the activities of the eniac since 2007 is necessary, and this will only take place in the context of the 2014 discharge. the court of auditors also raised doubts as to the legality and regularity of the company's operations. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the eniac joint undertakings, after being granted a deferral of discharge by the european parliament, have made important improvements to its budget and procedures.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this czarnecki report is to grant discharge for the financial year 2013 to the eniac joint undertaking, which is responsible for the development of nanoelectronic systems. as with previous landfills, there are improvements in some areas, but the evaluation of eniac activities since 2007 will only take place in the 2014 landfill. i can therefore only vote against this text in the absence of an evaluation of the activities of this joint undertaking for which the court of auditors expresses its reservations as to the legality and regularity of certain operations.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted against the discharge. the eniac joint undertaking aims to serve as a platform for research in nanotechnology. this 10-year project is to define and implement a research programme on the development of key competences for nanotechnology. as for artémis, the discharge for eniac had already been postponed by the european parliament at the previous vote because of various irregularities noted by the court of auditors in terms of transparency, guarantees and methods of estimating errors. leniac had promised to correct these errors. however, the court of auditors still expresses doubts as to the regularity and legality of the transactions underlying the annual accounts. in these circumstances we are opposed to the granting of this discharge.
in writing. ‒ parliament's budgetary discharge should enable it to enforce budgetary commitments on all european institutions and agencies. the commission and the council take virtually no account of parliament's votes, even when it refuses discharge. this is a symptom of the democratic impotence of parliament in the eu. the 2013 discharge was refused to the eniac joint undertaking last april due to the court of auditors' concerns about the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the joint undertaking's accounts. the company provided guarantees, but as the 2013 budget was once again executed in a particularly chaotic manner, any discharge for that year is problematic. in fact, in that year the commission and the council managed to set aside and carry forward 1 billion in surpluses, while the eu had accumulated 20 billion in arrears. this savage application of austerity is unacceptable and absurd. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this concerns the discharge for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the eniac joint undertaking, which is financed by the eu budget, the private sector and the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council. the court of auditors also raised doubts as to the legality and regularity of the company's operations. the member therefore votes against the discharge. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism.
in writing. the purpose of this czarnecki report is to grant discharge for the financial year 2013 to the eniac joint undertaking, which is responsible for the development of nanoelectronic systems. as with previous landfills, there are improvements in some areas, but the evaluation of eniac activities since 2007 will only take place in the 2014 landfill. i can therefore only vote against this text in the absence of an evaluation of the activities of this joint undertaking for which the court of auditors expresses its reservations as to the legality and regularity of certain operations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report authorising the 2013 discharge for the eniac joint undertaking. last april, the discharge was postponed because the company had not provided sufficient assurances on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying its annual accounts, leading to a reserved opinion from the court of auditors. the report submitted in september on the measures taken to improve the implementation of the eniac budget satisfied the discharge authorities. the committee on budgetary control therefore recommended that discharge be granted. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. this process is the political part of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this czarnecki report is to grant discharge for the financial year 2013 to the eniac joint undertaking, which is responsible for the development of nanoelectronic systems. as with previous landfills, there are improvements in some areas, but the evaluation of eniac activities since 2007 will only take place in the 2014 landfill. i can therefore only vote against this text in the absence of an evaluation of the activities of this joint undertaking for which the court of auditors expresses its reservations as to the legality and regularity of certain operations.
in writing. ‒ following the publication of the new court of auditors' report on the eniac joint undertaking (which became ecsel in 2014 after merging with artemis), i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013. the recent report provides sufficient evidence of the legality and regularity of eniac's accounts.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this text follows the european parliament's decision to postpone the 2013 discharge to the eniac joint undertaking. the ex-post audit strategy concerning the legality and regularity of the operations of the eniac joint undertaking had been called into question. following the identification of this problem, the eniac joint undertaking submitted a progress report and amendments. given the improvements in ex-post audits and audit strategies and the introduction of a new method for estimating the residual error rate, i voted in favour of granting the 2013 discharge to the eniac joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the council to be refused discharge. the council has once again refused to cooperate and to provide information on the use of its budget. parliament deplored this practice, which placed the european parliament, the only institution elected by direct suffrage and with budgetary powers, particularly in the area of discharge, in a subordinate position. the report stresses that all institutions should be transparent and accountable and are held accountable for the implementation of their budgets.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this vote is to reject a discharge on the implementation of the eu budget for the financial year 2013. i voted for that rejection. the council does not cooperate fully with parliament and does not provide it with detailed information on the use of appropriations. this attitude calls into question the powers of parliament in budgetary matters. in its report, parliament stresses that expenditure must be monitored in the same way as the other institutions. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this commonsense report which reminds the council of its duties in the field of budgetary transparency. the text calls for the council to be refused discharge, and rightly so: despite the democratic legitimacy of parliament - the only european institution to be elected by direct universal suffrage - the council is obstinate in its opacity and refuses to cooperate with the elected representatives of the european parliament by providing them with essential information on its expenditure. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on this courageous text which recalls that all european institutions, particularly because of the impact they have on the lives of millions of citizens, must be accountable and transparent when it comes to the implementation of their budget.
in writing. ‒ the european council, which is financed by the taxpayers of europe, is guilty of a new offence by refusing to provide details of its expenditure. its behaviour is unacceptable to the peoples of europe, who have been subjected by the european union to an unprecedentedly violent austerity policy, which has led to a massive reduction in public spending and a vertiginous increase in taxation, thus plunging a large proportion of our citizens into poverty. it is not surprising that europeans are turning away from the european institutions when we see them acting with this sense of total impunity, as if these technocrats not elected by universal suffrage are not accountable. this lack of transparency is a real scandal. i therefore support this report which proposes to refuse to grant discharge to the council.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes to refuse the discharge for the 2013 financial year to the european council and the council, following a first rejection by the european parliament, by a large majority and for the seventh consecutive year, at its april 2015 session. having received no reply to the questions and requests put forward during this and previous discharge years by the european council and the council, parliament once again proposes to refuse to grant discharge. in view of this repetitive and unnecessary situation, it is appropriate to consider various options for updating the rules for granting discharge to the council, the budgetary authority, as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. supporting the conclusions of this report, i voted against the discharge for the financial year 2013.
in writing. by this vote, the european parliament refused to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2013. it is essential that the european council and the council should be more transparent about the use of the funds allocated. we call for better cooperation from the council in the granting of this discharge.
in writing. ‒ this report, which seeks to refuse to grant discharge to the council of europe, is intended to put an end to the budgetary behaviour of a body which is not elected. the european parliament, the only body with real legitimacy, is merely the one who gives an opinion on the granting of discharge. the fact that there can be no taxation without representation seems to me to be a misnomer, since such a system can still exist in a europe which is the anthem of democracy. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013 is here. once again the council refuses to cooperate with parliament and to provide it with explanations on the use of appropriations. the council thus calls into question parliament's powers in budgetary matters. the discharge is therefore rejected, so i voted in favour. the report, which is critical, stresses that expenditure must be monitored in the same way as the other institutions. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposed to refuse discharge to the european council and the council. the two institutions do not provide any explanation of how their budgets are used. as union institutions, they must be subject to democratic control like all other european institutions and agencies.
in writing. ‒ the czarnecki report seeks to refuse discharge to the european council and the council of ministers for the 2013 budgetary year, which seems perfectly legitimate to me given that the council refuses to cooperate and provide the european parliament with information on the use of appropriations. this puts the european parliament in an inferior position and the council in a different position from the other institutions, which is not justified. i therefore voted in favour of this critical text, which puts all the institutions on an equal footing in the control of expenditure.
in writing. - i voted for this refusal to grant discharge. the report calls for the discharge to be refused, which is not customary. we support this decision because the council, which is the subject of this discharge, has for years refused to cooperate and to provide information on its expenditure. it is the duty of every institution of the european union to be totally transparent. this attitude casts doubt on the legality and legitimacy of the council's operations!
in writing. ‒ one of the few exclusive powers of the parliament in budgetary matters is to give discharge to the european institutions once their budgets have been implemented. last april, parliament had lightly decided to postpone its decision on the discharge to the council for its 2013 budget. he hoped for improvements that never came. the council continues to give no explanation as to whether or not part of its budget has been used. it is the first to demand ever greater rigour in the implementation of the european budget. for example, for the past 10 years, the construction of the council's future sumptuous building, which is estimated to cost more than €300 million, has been largely unknown. the report therefore decides to refuse to grant the council any discharge for the 2013 budget, as it has done for all its budgets since 2009. in the present state of the fictitious powers of parliament, this refusal to grant discharge has no impact. the rapporteur therefore rightly suggests that the rules for granting landfills should be changed. one wish among many. i shall vote for this refusal of discharge, however, to encourage this beginning of parliamentary resistance.
in writing. ‒ the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013 is here. once again the council refuses to cooperate with parliament and to provide it with explanations on the use of appropriations. the council thus calls into question parliament's powers in budgetary matters. the discharge is therefore rejected and the honourable member votes in favour. the report, which is critical, stresses that expenditure must be monitored in the same way as the other institutions. the member therefore votes in favour.
in writing. the czarnecki report seeks to refuse discharge to the european council and the council of ministers for the 2013 financial year, which seems to me perfectly legitimate given that the council refuses to cooperate and provide the european parliament with information on the use of appropriations. this puts the european parliament in an inferior position and the council in a different position from the other institutions, which is not justified. i therefore voted in favour of this critical text, which puts all the institutions on an equal footing in the control of expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which refuses discharge to the european council and the council for the financial year 2013. the discharge, which may be granted, postponed or refused by the european parliament, constitutes the final control of the annual budget. this process represents the political aspect of the control of budget implementation. it shall base its opinion on the reports of the court of auditors and on the clarifications provided by the bodies concerned. the discharge decision may be accompanied by recommendations to improve certain aspects of budget implementation. as regards the european council and the council, a large majority in the committee on budgetary control considered that the lack of answers to the questions put by the european parliament justified the refusal to grant this discharge. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ this czarnecki report seeks to refuse discharge to the european council and the council of ministers for the 2013 budgetary year. this seems to me perfectly legitimate, given that the council refuses to cooperate and to provide the european parliament with information on the use of appropriations. this puts the european parliament in an inferior position and the council in a different position from the other institutions, which is not justified. i therefore voted in favour of this critical text, which puts all the institutions on an equal footing in the control of expenditure.
in writing. ‒ the council and the european council have not yet replied to all the european parliament's questions concerning the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013. in this context, the european parliament decided to refuse discharge. i voted for this decision and i expect the council and the european council to work more closely with parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which refuses discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the year 2013. our assembly has a right of budgetary control which it exercises by means of discharge, the procedure by which we close the union's budget for a given year. it aims to ensure that european public funds are used properly by the union's institutions and bodies. however, we are facing systematic difficulties in the council's discharge procedures, because of the lack of cooperation on the part of the council, particularly in the transmission of information and explanations requested. we have therefore refused to give the council discharge for the financial years 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and now 2013. such an attitude on the part of the council is regrettable, especially since it is a breach of the right to information and transparency vis-à-vis the citizens of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which again refuses to grant discharge to the european council and the council. the text recalls that it is necessary to consider various options for amending the rules on the granting of discharge laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i supported this text because it is necessary to update these rules. it is also regrettable that, while parliament has already invited the european council and the council to enter into an open and formal dialogue with the other institutions, the council has not responded to the requests made.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to establish a post-ebola action plan by strengthening health systems in developing countries. the text also stresses the need for the eu to promote effective and equitable funding in medical research and innovation, and calls for special attention to be paid to women who are often more vulnerable to the virus through their work. the report is therefore a step in the right direction, as it calls for the development of local infrastructure to prevent epidemics and thus develop a more efficient health system. it also aims to revitalise the economies of these countries to give them greater autonomy in managing health crises.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to draw lessons from the ebola crisis. it stressed in particular that health infrastructure in west africa should be developed and modernised. for this reason, i voted in favour of this resolution, although i regret the tendency of this text to over-dramatise the ebola crisis, as if the health problems facing african countries were new.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for urgent access to the new vaccine, which has been shown to be 100% effective in guinea, liberia and sierra leone. you should always be careful. the disease is not completely eradicated due to the complex nature of the virus.
in writing. ‒ i did not oppose this report, although it is based on many wrong principles, in this case those of its rapporteur, the liberal luxembourg charles goerens.
in writing. ‒ i have taken a position in favour of this report which is in the right direction with regard to the management of the ebola crisis, that is to say towards advocating long-term solutions in a development objective. the text aims to establish a post-epidemic action plan based in particular on the strengthening of the health systems of developing countries, particularly with regard to the countries most affected by the virus, i.e. sierra leone, liberia and guinea. to achieve this, investment must first focus on the establishment of social security and public health systems, while also emphasising the development of the necessary medical training and care infrastructure. moreover, a genuine investment effort in research and innovation is essential for the development of these countries. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to implement a post-ebola action plan to strengthen the health system in the least developed countries, particularly those that have been most affected by the epidemic, such as sierra leone, liberia and guinea, where this objective should become the budgetary priority of national authorities. the rapporteur stresses two points in particular, namely the training of qualified staff and the construction of quality infrastructure. it also called for the member states to be helped to finance medical research and for the administrations to be supported in their role of supporting the local population, particularly women who are more vulnerable to this type of epidemic. we consider it our duty to help african countries to overcome the health crises they are experiencing, particularly with a view to securing the populations on the ground. to this end, it is essential to support them on the ground so that the funds granted directly benefit the inhabitants of the regions concerned. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report reflects on the post-ebola period based on lessons learned during the ebola crisis. since march 2014, sierra leone, liberia and guinea have been hit by the worst ebola outbreak ever recorded. this epidemic is a real challenge for the three states with structural health and education gaps. the report makes a series of recommendations to improve the international and eu response to emergency aid. i also considered that long-term support through a development aid plan focused on investments in health is necessary, and i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which deals with the lessons to be learned from the ebola crisis. parliament rightly criticises the international community's slowness in dealing with the epidemic and the fragility of its response. i would argue that, in addition to emergency aid, the european union should provide development aid for the health sector in the countries affected by the epidemic.
in writing. ‒ the ebola crisis has hit west africa hard. the outbreak has killed more than 9,000 people and the world health organization (who) has just reported new cases in guinea. the international community has been too slow to respond to this crisis. we must learn from them. we must establish a permanent rapid response mechanism at european level to respond immediately to health crises. the mechanism should be able to mobilise experts and medical staff with logistical means and mobile rapid response teams in a short time. today, countries like sierra leone, liberia and guinea lack adequate health systems to deal with a pandemic of this magnitude and are dependent on international solidarity. it is therefore the responsibility of the european union to provide assistance to the affected populations. we also need to focus on prevention. many infections could have been avoided by observing basic hygiene rules. this is done through information and awareness campaigns in all affected and neighbouring areas.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to draw lessons from the ebola crisis. it stressed in particular that health infrastructure in west africa should be developed and modernised. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which makes a relevant assessment of the current violent outbreak of the ebola virus. it called on the eu to put in place long-term tools to respond to this type of crisis through prevention, development aid and the creation of a rapid action team.
in writing. ‒ this goerens report is about the ebola crisis and aims to draw long-term lessons from it and identify ways to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises. it criticised the slow international response to the crisis and called on all actors to draw conclusions from the crisis and in particular from the harmful role of the imf and the world bank in the matter. it also points to the inadequacy of health systems in developing countries. i decided to vote in favour of this text because it is relatively consensual and highlights the damaging role of the imf in these countries.
in writing. - i voted yes. the report aims to establish a post-ebola action plan by strengthening health systems in developing countries (including some african states particularly affected by the virus). the text stresses the autonomy of the states in health matters. from a budgetary point of view, it encourages the countries concerned to give priority to the establishment of social security and public health systems, medical training and the construction of modern hospital infrastructure. on the economic front, it proposes to provide technical assistance to these countries with regard to their administration, their financing capacity and the equitable redistribution of aid granted. finally, on the social side, it emphasises the special protection granted to women, who are more exposed to this type of virus for professional and cultural reasons (they are often responsible for organizing and conducting funeral rites). far from the financial assistance often seen in humanitarian aid, this report is a positive one. it encourages the development and economic and administrative empowerment of these countries affected by serious health crises.
in writing. ‒ dominique martin voted in favour of this report. the report purports to strengthen health systems in developing countries, particularly those most affected by the ebola virus (sierra leone, liberia, guinea). the report intelligently gives budgetary priority to the establishment of social security and public health systems and to the training of doctors. the text proposes the establishment of a 'marshall plan' to help revive the economies of these countries and the development of local infrastructure to prevent future outbreaks.
in writing. ‒ the text looks at the international management of the ebola crisis since it emerged in liberia, sierra leone and guinea in march 2014. the text criticises the slowness of the international response. it noted that 'health and education systems have deteriorated as a result of structural adjustment programmes imposed by the imf and the world bank' and called for 'the vaccine to be made available urgently and with certainty, at a price that is affordable to all'. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to draw lessons from the ebola crisis. it stressed in particular that health infrastructure in west africa should be developed and modernised. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in writing. this goerens report is about the ebola crisis and aims to draw long-term lessons from it and identify ways to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises. it criticised the slow international response to the crisis and called on all actors to draw conclusions from the crisis and in particular from the harmful role of the imf and the world bank in the matter. it also points to the inadequacy of health systems in developing countries. i decided to vote in favour of this text because it is relatively consensual and highlights the damaging role of the imf in these countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the ebola outbreak in sierra leone, liberia and guinea. the text stresses the scale and complexity of the crisis in west africa, which is a real challenge not only for these three states but also for the international community and the european union. it recalled that substantial resources had been urgently mobilised in the fields of research, innovation and crisis management. it also recommends strengthening health systems and good governance in developing countries through public assistance from donor countries to prevent future crises.
in writing. i support this report which calls for the strengthening of western policies for emergency aid to countries facing dire health situations. the aim is to recognise the lessons to be learned and the long-term action strategies that the european union must take from the management of the ebola crisis, which has particularly affected liberia, sierra leone and guinea. the rapporteur calls into question the budgetary policies put in place by the imf and the world bank, which have put these economies into debt. the report also stresses the need for more concrete and rapid action to strengthen national health systems and international food security and health infrastructure support systems.
in writing. ‒ the goerens report is about the ebola crisis and aims to draw long-term lessons and ways to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises. it criticised the international community's slowness in responding to the crisis and called on all actors to draw conclusions from the crisis and in particular from the harmful role of the imf and the world bank in the matter. it also points to the inadequacy of health systems in developing countries. i decided to vote in favour of this text because it is relatively consensual and highlights the damaging role of the imf in these countries.
in writing. ‒ since march 2014, three african countries, sierra leone, liberia and guinea, have been severely affected by the ebola virus. the epidemic is still raging despite european and international action to help these countries and their people. in this context, parliament wanted to stress the crucial role of the union, the world's leading development actor, in managing this crisis and providing the best possible assistance to these countries and the surrounding regions. while the union can help to manage the crisis, its role is also to limit upstream the factors conducive to the development of the virus. the best analysis of the union's role before and during the ebola crisis will help the union to better define its future role in development aid in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the creation of a permanent rapid reaction mechanism. this paper draws lessons from the management of the ebola crisis and provides a long-term perspective for assistance to countries affected by health crises. the establishment of such a mechanism is essential to address the slow pace of international response and to respond immediately to health crises similar to the ebola outbreak. the report also stresses the need to facilitate access to vaccines and the establishment of checkpoints in developing countries to monitor the emergence of infectious diseases. this mechanism is a real step forward in preventing the development of pandemics, which is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this joint motion for a resolution on emission measurement in the automotive sector because this text is actually more a matter of the european industrial strategy than a matter of the environment or public health. the case is a lever to strengthen eu legislation and the commission's grip on a key part of european industry.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution, drafted in haste by the main pro-european groups (epp, s&d, alde and greens/efa), is the european parliament's response to the volkswagen case. it is pleased that the amendment tabled by the greens and the radical left calling for the creation of a committee of inquiry has been rejected. another positive point is that the pollution thresholds for nitrogen oxide emissions, which were totally unrealistic, have been raised from 80 mg/km to 168 mg. however, this text contains several elements that run counter to the interests of the european automobile industry, which is already facing increased global competition. the tone of the proposal is moralising. co2 emissions are constantly denounced, even though their role in global warming (which is vastly overestimated) is far from scientifically proven. finally, the technical characteristics to be respected by manufacturers are decided in the interest of the power which defines them. it would therefore be appropriate for standards to remain the responsibility of the member states rather than the commission. finally, this proposal strengthens the union's powers and exaggerates the negative environmental impacts of diesel engines. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which condemns fraud by car manufacturers. i regret that millions of consumers have been misled or misled by false information about the emissions of their vehicles. i welcome the investigations under way in several member states and around the world, and i support the commission's call on national supervisory authorities to encourage them to carry out extensive checks on a wide variety of brands and vehicles.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which considers a strategic industrial issue from a purely ecological point of view in the context of a global trade war. the infringement by volkswagen is a real one, involving the emission of a pollutant, nitrogen dioxide (nox), while the diesel engines of the german car giant have indeed reduced emissions of carbon monoxide, a particle that oxidizes rapidly in the atmosphere to produce carbon dioxide. the text states the importance of choosing a product 'on the basis of the comprehensive and unbiased technical characteristics provided to it', whereas these characteristics are generally decided in the interests of the power which defines them. these characteristics are thus part of the non-tariff barriers that are at the heart of the ptci negotiations, and it so happens that the united states has reduced co2 emission rights to harm diesel engines. the scandal, which originated in the united states, undoubtedly serves the interests of our 'american partners' to the detriment of european manufacturers, who are leaders in the diesel engine industry. finally, this case is a lever to strengthen eu legislation and the commission's grip on a key part of european industry.
in writing. ‒ another motion for a resolution born of a political and media scandal and which, as a result, misses the strategic issue for the automotive industry. the resolution, following the volkswagen scandal, was based on a false premise: the diesel engines involved in the infringement had emitted more nitrogen dioxide than was permitted; however, the text argues that this endangers public health without taking into account that the cars concerned have, on the other hand, emitted less carbon monoxide, a much more harmful gas. the resolution also makes a mistake in criticising the choices of the european automobile industry and in asserting the need to rely on 'impartial' technical characteristics: it should be remembered that these technical characteristics constitute real non-tariff barriers, which are currently threatened by the united states, which, through ttip, wishes to impose its own standards to the detriment of its european competitors. since this resolution is intended to act on emotion and not in the interests of our industry, i have therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the volkswagen scandal revealed that the german company had configured its diesel engines to evade nitrogen dioxide emission controls. this motion for a resolution deals with this offence only from an environmental point of view, whereas this is a strategic issue between two trading powers, germany and the united states. the text also fails to mention that this infringement limits the emission of carbon monoxide, a gas which is extremely harmful to the environment. finally, it is essential to understand that emission limits for pollutants constitute non-tariff barriers because they are biased by the arbitrary decisions of national authorities which cannot be impartial in this strategic sector. although i have no sympathy for the large groups who are constantly trying to circumvent national legislation, i do not think it is wise to leave the commercial aspect of this matter out of the question. the rapporteur also takes advantage of the situation to strengthen eu legislation to the detriment of the member states, which will lose autonomy in a sector of activity that is highly strategic in terms of jobs. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on emission measurement in the automobile sector which i believe can pave the way for thorough investigations to shed light on the volkswagen case. i wholeheartedly support the call for a reinforced european emission control system and the application of real-world driving tests, which are essential for measuring all pollutants and urgent for all those who, like me, advocate an innovative and responsible european industry. the establishment of a european supervisory authority which would supervise the type-approval of vehicles by the national authorities is also necessary to safeguard itself independently against any attempts to infringe. finally, i welcome the european parliament's willingness not to condemn diesel technologies in a peremptory way. it was important to combine ambition with realism, at a time when europe is technologically ahead in clean diesel and many european citizens with modest incomes own diesel vehicles.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report revises national emission ceilings for certain pollutants to improve air quality and human health. the text introduces new limit values (such as sulphur dioxide, ultrafine particles or methane) from 2020 and 2030. it also proposes a binding 2025 interim target for all pollutants except ammonia. other measures include access to finance for air quality improvements and emission control programmes. there was much opposition, both on the level of ambition of the reduction targets for 2020, 2025 and 2030, and on the addition of new pollutants. since we do not currently have an effective technical or technological means of reducing the emissions of enteric methane (waste from livestock), i co-signed an amendment, the content of which was taken up by the plenary, to exclude these emissions from the directive, so as not to penalise the agricultural sector. i regret, however, that my amendments to protect small farms and to exclude ammonia were not adopted. i have nevertheless voted in favour of opening negotiations between the european parliament and the council, in support of the main objectives of this report.
in writing. following the volkswagen scandal, this text adopted by a large majority in the european parliament on emission measurements in the automobile sector condemns fraud by car manufacturers. i believe that consumer confidence must be restored quickly and that there must be a thorough investigation into cases of fraud in car emissions tests. it is not our job, however, to undermine the whole automobile sector, which is essential to the european economy, or to condemn the use of diesel for good.
in writing. ‒ a few weeks ago, the us environmental protection agency (epa) revealed a large-scale fraud by the volkswagen group. the german manufacturer has reportedly fitted some of its cars with software to conceal the real level of polluting gas emissions in the event of a check. the european commission will not only condemn such fraud, but also have to strengthen testing and controls to better protect consumers. moreover, i would like a committee of inquiry to be set up to shed light on what happened so that it does not happen again.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. the automobile industry makes an immense contribution to the whole european economy, so the sector must not be the victim of fraud by a few. the fraud in car emissions tests must be thoroughly investigated and appropriate sanctions applied, but this must not be an opportunity to ideologically put diesel aside. while many of our citizens on low incomes drive diesel vehicles, europe has a real technological lead in terms of 'clean' diesel. we must therefore urgently bring the conditions of the type approval tests closer to the real driving conditions. the commission should also review the vehicle approval system and ensure that the approval and certificates issued by the competent national authorities can be independently verified and possibly reassessed by the commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament this week voted on a strong resolution following the revelations of the 'volkswagen scandal'. firstly, fraud in car emissions testing must be thoroughly investigated and appropriate sanctions applied. secondly, given the scale of the crisis, it is imperative that europe establishes real-life emissions tests that respect legal emission limits and are fully implemented. thirdly, parliament wants to be fully informed of the work being done by the european commission and the technical committee for motor vehicles (ctvm). finally, i regret that our request for a committee of inquiry did not receive a majority. it would have been an opportunity to make a mark, and above all to put the responsibility for clarifying matters in the hands of another body than the european commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. the automobile industry is a huge contributor to the whole european economy, so the whole sector should not be the victim of fraud by a few in a few companies. the fraud in car emissions tests must be thoroughly investigated and the appropriate sanctions applied, but this cannot be an opportunity to ideologically put diesel aside. it would be a grave mistake for many of our citizens with modest incomes to drive diesel vehicles, while europe has a real technological advance in 'clean' diesel! we must therefore urgently bring the conditions of the type approval tests closer to the real driving conditions. the commission should also review the vehicle approval system in order to ensure, on the one hand, that the approval and certificates issued by the competent national authorities can be independently verified and possibly reassessed by the commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important resolution for european consumers. it strongly condemns fraud in emissions tests by car manufacturers and paves the way for thorough investigations. all of this is in the right direction to shed light on the volkswagen case. it also calls for the revision of emissions tests so that they are carried out under real driving conditions by 2017, rather than in laboratories, and that they are extended to all pollutants. finally, it suggests that the creation of a supervisory authority at european level should be considered. although the importance of not passing the consequences of these frauds on to employees is stressed (they cannot be held responsible for the actions of the management bodies), my socialist colleagues and i would have liked the text to go further. i also regret that an amendment on the protection of workers and subcontractors in the motor vehicle sector has been rejected. i also regret the adoption of an amendment in favour of diesel. this is a missed opportunity to reverse the trend and support the transition to alternative fuels.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution, tabled in haste by the main pro-european groups (epp, s&d, alde and greens/efa), is the european parliament's response to the volkswagen case. it is certainly commendable that the amendment proposed by the greens and the radical left calling for the creation of a committee of inquiry has been rejected. it is also gratifying that the pollution limits for nitrogen oxide emissions, which were totally unrealistic, have been raised from 80 mg/km to 168 mg. however, this text, through some of its provisions, is contrary to the interests of the european automobile industry, which is already facing formidable global competition. the rhetoric of the proposal is moralising. co2 emissions are constantly denounced, even though their role in global warming (which is vastly overestimated) is far from scientifically proven. finally, the technical characteristics to be respected by manufacturers are decided in the interest of the power which defines them. it would therefore be appropriate for standards to remain the responsibility of the member states rather than the commission. consequently, this proposal strengthens the eu's powers and exaggerates the environmental effects of diesel engines. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, following the volkswagen scandal, it was necessary for the european parliament to remind the member states and the european commission of their obligations in relation to pollution control and to stress the need to review the current system of car controls in europe.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution on volkswagen's carbon emissions cheating, i supported the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. neither this nor the amendments against false advertising were accepted. on the other hand, an amendment was adopted which maintains that diesel is a means of achieving our objectives of reducing carbon emissions. these votes can only be explained by the intense lobbying of the german large-cylinder manufacturers. a few days later, the technical committee for motor vehicles revised its test guidelines to allow exceeding its own pollution thresholds. with this measure, the creation of a european authority to ensure that testing procedures meet european standards, which i had also supported, became obsolete. we urgently need a complete overhaul of our approval systems and an independent investigation into the fraud that has been committed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution because it uses the volkswagen scandal to strengthen the brussels commission's grip on the automobile industry.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution tabled by the epp, s&d, alde and the greens follows the scandal of the german company volkswagen, which was accused of rigging its engines to falsify pollution tests. at a time when international competition and economic warfare are raging, particularly against the united states, which has cleverly used this scandal to weigh down european car production, this resolution finds nothing better than to constrain the car industry by strengthening eu legislation and the commission's grip under the guise of good environmental sentiments, which the united states does not mind. it is obvious that such a text will be reflected in the situation of workers and smes which are subcontractors of volkswagen. how can the commission be given more power when it is now clear that it was aware of the fraud? i have therefore decided to vote against this text which would harm the european car industry and play into the hands of the american industry.
in writing. ‒ in the electricity context of the volkswagen scandal, this motion for a resolution seeks to provide a purely environmental response to a strategic industrial problem. the commission's increasingly worrying control of an industrial sector vital to europe, community legislation which is increasingly intrusive in our companies - all these reasons were given for my voting against this iniquitous and cynical text.
in writing. - i voted against it. this motion for a resolution was tabled in response to the volkswagen scandal. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. this resolution tackles a strategically important industrial issue by treating it as an environmental problem. under the guise of protecting the environment, it provides for the obligation to choose a product 'on the basis of the comprehensive and unbiased technical characteristics provided to it', even though the technical characteristics are anything but unbiased! these are non-tariff barriers, which the united states knows how to use to eliminate its competitors.
in writing. ‒ this resolution condemns the emissions cheating by volkswagen. it therefore calls for 'the authorities of the member states to require manufacturers to repay any subsidies, tax advantages or other tax incentives'. the text also stresses that 'before considering redundancies, manufacturers must use their own financial resources, including by refraining from distributing dividends, to cover as far as possible the costs resulting from the breach of the applicable legislation'. i am voting for this text, although i regret that it does not call for the end of the negotiations currently under way on the transatlantic single market, which is based on the harmonization of these various control systems by means of 'mutual recognition' and which could increase the level of risk in terms of emissions from passenger cars.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution, drafted in haste by the main pro-european groups (epp, s&d, alde and greens/efa), is the european parliament's response to the volkswagen case. fortunately, the amendment tabled by the greens and the radical left, calling for the creation of a committee of inquiry, was rejected. another positive point is that the pollution thresholds for nitrogen oxide emissions, which were totally unrealistic, have been raised from 80 mg/km to 168 mg. but there are several elements in this text which run counter to the interests of the european automobile industry, which is already facing increased global competition. the tone of the proposal is moralising. co2 emissions are constantly denounced, even though their role in global warming (which is vastly overestimated) is far from scientifically proven. finally, the technical characteristics to be respected by manufacturers are decided in the interest of the power which defines them. it would therefore be appropriate for standards to remain the responsibility of the member states rather than the commission. the proposal thus strengthens the union's powers and exaggerates the environmental effects of diesel engines. the member therefore voted against.
in writing. the resolution, tabled by the epp, s&d, alde and greens, follows the scandal involving the german company volkswagen, which was accused of rigging its engines to falsify pollution tests. at a time when international competition and economic warfare are raging, particularly against the united states, which has cleverly used this scandal to weigh down european car production, this resolution finds nothing better than to constrain the car industry by strengthening eu legislation and the commission's grip under the guise of good environmental sentiments, which the united states does not mind. it is obvious that such a text will be re-issued on the situation of workers and smes subcontracted to volkswagen. how can the commission be given more power when it is now clear that it was aware of the fraud? i have therefore decided to vote against this text which would harm the european car industry and play into the hands of the american industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on measures to reduce emissions from the automotive sector. the text, which was drawn up in response to the scandal created by the revelation of fraud in pollution tests by volkswagen, is balanced and aims to restore motorists' confidence in the use of diesel engines. in order to achieve this, the resolution calls for the extension of the real-world testing already provided for in a regulation adopted in 2007 and extended in 2013 to all pollutants, not just nitrogen oxide. it also calls for consideration of the establishment of an eu-level supervisory authority. as stated in an amendment by the ppe group which i voted for, i believe that diesel technology remains an important means of enabling manufacturers to meet the average co2 emissions targets for the fleet in circulation in the union in 2021. it is essential to support this less polluting engine system than the petrol-driven one, which allows many europeans to gain purchasing power by paying less for their fuel.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution tabled by the epp, s&d, alde and the greens follows the scandal of the german company volkswagen, which was accused of rigging its engines to falsify pollution tests. at a time when international competition and economic warfare are raging, particularly against the united states, which has cleverly used this scandal to weigh down european car production, this resolution finds nothing better than to constrain the car industry by strengthening eu legislation and the commission's grip under the guise of good environmental sentiments, which the united states does not mind. it is obvious that such a text will be re-issued on the situation of workers and smes subcontracted to volkswagen. how can the commission be given more power when it is now clear that it was aware of the fraud? i have therefore decided to vote against this text which would harm the european car industry and play into the hands of the american industry.
in writing. ‒ following the discovery of the volkswagen scandal and the fraudulent operations of the german company, the european parliament adopted a text condemning any attempt by car manufacturers to commit fraud and infringe the rights of european consumers. the text also calls on the commission to introduce real-world emissions tests to better monitor the environmental impact of new cars on the market. i voted in favour of this text and i believe that the union must take appropriate and rapid action against this vast and organised piracy operation.
in writing. on 27 october 2015, meps adopted a resolution calling on the commission to take all necessary measures to respond to the volkswagen scandal and the falsification of pollution tests. i voted in favour of this resolution, which is a step in the right direction, to open the way to in-depth investigations and to revise the test procedures so that they are carried out under real conditions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. however, i regret that members did not take this opportunity, in view of cop21, to support the transition to alternative fuels by challenging the predominance of fossil fuels. it would also have been necessary to include a specific paragraph in favour of diesel emission policies, which is at the root of the air pollution problem causing serious public health problems throughout europe. finally, i regret that the european parliament did not adopt, by four votes to one, an amendment to support workers and subcontractors, who must not suffer the consequences of this fraud, which must be borne by the managers.
in writing. ‒ after speaking to elzbieta bienkowska, european commissioner for the internal market, industry, entrepreneurship and smes, in a debate on emission measurement in the automotive sector, i voted in favour of a motion for a resolution to improve the efficiency and reliability of emissions controls. the proposal calls for an end to laboratory testing, the results of which can be biased by optimisation practices such as tyre inflation or the use of specific lubricants, and for testing to be carried out in real traffic conditions. the resolution also calls for the creation of a european-wide supervisory authority to strengthen the control of eu legislation in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on emission measurement in the automotive sector, which follows the shocking revelations about volkswagen fraud. cheating is unacceptable, especially since the health of citizens, the environmental model we want to build and consumer confidence in a major european industrial sector are at stake. we therefore strongly condemn any fraud committed by car manufacturers, encourage investigations by some member states and call on the national authorities to carry out more intensive checks. a thorough investigation must be carried out. it is also regrettable that the proposal for a parliamentary committee of inquiry was rejected. the european vehicle approval system needs to be re-established. for example, the new test cycle for emission measurement should be introduced as soon as possible to allow tests to assess real driving conditions. finally, the creation of a european supervisory authority should be considered. the laws must be respected and consumer confidence restored. the competitiveness of the european automotive sector and the jobs associated with it depend on it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution follows the volkswagen scandal. it considers a strategic industrial issue in the context of a global trade war from a narrow and highly exaggerated point of view of the environment. the 'scandal' also serves as a lever to strengthen eu legislation and the commission's grip on a key part of european industry. i therefore oppose this text.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. madam president, the committee on budgets has adopted a pilot project, proposed by the committee on fisheries. this pilot project will allow for supervision of the coastguards at european level. i thank my colleagues josé manuel fernandes and jean arthuis for their support. the european union is helpless in the face of the tragedy of migrant shipwrecks. we are faced with a terrible contradiction: the problem is truly european, but the means of surveillance and intervention at sea are the responsibility of the states and there is minimal coordination between them. the pilot project therefore proposes to create a european supervisory mechanism to coordinate the action of national coastguards and the european agencies: frontex, the fisheries control agency and the maritime safety agency. the proposal is accompanied by a budget of eur 750 000 to pool capabilities and resources, share information and carry out coordinated planning of operations at sea. this is therefore a significant step forward in strengthening the schengen area and in improving coordination of member states' action at the borders.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. madam president, europe is facing a number of crises which would indeed require more and more community resources to deal with. the council and the member states must hear what parliament is saying: there is an urgent need to commit ourselves resolutely to a new budgetary path where the union would be endowed with its own resources, for example from financial transactions. we must urgently give ourselves the financial leeway to deal with the challenges of the moment: climate change, the energy transition, the advent of the digital society, industrial recovery, youth employment, the refugee crisis, geopolitical instability in the middle east and, of course, agriculture, for which i was the rapporteur on the budget. europe can do a lot; the political project has proven its worth; today it is broken, because it is subject to, indeed, contrary winds. how can we imagine budgetary restraint on the one hand and a lot of investment on the other? i think there is a contradiction here, and europe must put an end to this contradiction, and the european budget must be given fresh air.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr minister, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget for 2016 as adjusted by the committee on budgets and i would like to commend in this regard the very remarkable work done by the general rapporteur, josé manuel fernandes, and the rapporteur for the other sections, gérard deprez is a budget that is anchored in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and is supposed to respond to the problem of the time when it was conceived and adopted; in other words, despite our efforts, this budget is largely a mirror of the past. in the face of crises, first the euro and greece's over-indebtedness, then migration, the european union, lacking budgetary resources and flexibility, is condemned to show its weaknesses, even its impotence. beyond our votes, the prevailing impression is that the european union will only be able to stem the flow of migration if it effectively tackles the causes of migration, both by ending violence in the middle east and the horn of africa and by pursuing a genuine development policy in sub-saharan africa. it is clear that the 2016 budget does not have the necessary funds to address the root causes of the population movements that are converging towards our continent. and yet, jean-claude juncker reminded us of this here this morning, in an exceptional situation, with an exceptional budget. good words waiting for action. the first illustration of our need is that the creation of coastguards and border guards at the external borders of the european union is being proposed by the heads of state or government. assuming that the arrangements for the command of these coastguards and border guards are settled, where are the necessary funds? as regards the refugee camps on the borders of syria, turkey, lebanon and jordan, mrs merkel and mr juncker agreed this morning that a budget of three billion was needed. where are the corresponding credits? at this stage, given the financial situation of most member states, we must be aware of the difficulties which will mark the conciliation which is now beginning, mr minister. the vote by parliament will give strength to the negotiators who will do everything to convince the council of the soundness of our budgetary options. i am sure that the conciliation will be a difficult test, whatever the outcome. it will give us decisive arguments for starting without delay the revision of the multiannual financial framework. this will be the test of truth for the commission of the last chance and the council's historic responsibility to respond to it.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing a budget which is limited by the restrictive framework of the cfp, with very limited room for manoeuvre. you know our view of this framework, which sacralizes austerity and budgetary discipline as an insurmountable horizon and deprives the union of the means to meet the multiple challenges of a chaotic world, a world in crisis, a world in flux and a europe facing many difficulties. i hope we will have this debate when the mff is being re-examined, and the question of own resources will inevitably arise, to equip the union to face these challenges. we can see this clearly in the case of the migration crisis: the european parliament's proposal is a step in the right direction, but it will still be insufficient to meet the scale of the challenge we face.
mr president, as president juncker has acknowledged this morning, the european budget is no longer up to the responsibilities which the member states have entrusted to the union. he drew the first conclusion: in exceptional circumstances, exceptional revenues. yes, you are! but i would add an amendment: the 21st century itself will be exceptional. before the refugees, there was terrorism, there was the investment plan - the so-called juncker plan - there was the exceptional programme on youth employment; in a few weeks, there will be climate and energy, next year, digital strategy, etc. the real conclusion is that we must prepare now for the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. to this end, i suggest that the european commission should undertake the politically necessary preparatory work. the aim is to assess, sector by sector, the overall budgetary savings which are or will be made possible by the transfer of a competence at european level. a european border guard force will obviously be more efficient and less costly than 28 national border police forces. the single sky single air traffic control will cost less than 28 national controls and will improve aviation safety. the outstanding competition commissioners get billions of euros in fines from multinationals every year, out of the reach of our national authorities. at the very least, one euro more spent in brussels can save 28 euros in the member states, which is the simple budgetary translation of the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, madam vice-president, mr minister, i know that you share the principle that all political decisions involving budgetary measures must be honoured by payments. this may seem obvious, but it is not, since the forecast of unpaid invoices at the end of 2015 amounts to 17.5 billion euros. it is on this basis that the responsible parliament proposes to increase the volume of payments in 2016 by eur 2.9 billion. while we welcome the commission's responsibility in its second letter of amendment, we cannot be satisfied with it, nor can we accept the council's incessant budget cuts, such as the eur 450 million in external aid, which is at the heart of the migration issue. ladies and gentlemen, the words are flying and the budgets are staying. so if we want to tackle the big challenges - the reception of migrants, youth unemployment, recovery through investment - the budget must follow, first using all the margins of flexibility that exist. but, mr minister, it is time to find another solution than these systematic redeployments which run from one priority to another according to emergencies, stripping peter to dress paul, because today the research budget is in jeopardy. mr juncker said this morning that budgetary resources were limited and that the exceptional situation had to be taken into account. then shut up! the commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income is a very good one. then shut up! let us consider the own resources, starting with the potential for a tax on multinationals at european level. we would not thus add a budgetary crisis to the other european crises.
in writing. we will vote on the union's 2016 budget, which gives the european union the means to act. to this end, we have increased the targets originally proposed by the commission in various areas. an additional €1.16 billion was added to meet the needs of member states dealing with the largest influxes of refugees and another €500 million for contracts under new programmes to help young unemployed people. other sectors have received special attention: agriculture is receiving special support as a result of the impact of the russian embargo on the price of milk, as is the european research programme horizon 2020. the member states must not now block the will to work together. i voted against paragraph 77 of the text, which was intended solely to abolish the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg.
madam president, madam high representative, there is no serious way out for the palestinian and israeli peoples without respect for international law. and this international law will only be respected if the european union acts in concert with the united states and a number of arab countries. we must stop making false symmetries. what violence are we talking about here? there's a coloniser and a colonised man. there is a people there who have their own state, the people of israel. the other is denied a state, robbed of land and water, humiliated, has its houses demolished, imprisoned, has a wall built, is bombed as in gaza. so there will be no peace unless we tackle the occupation of israeli settlements. the european union must say so and act accordingly, that is to say, suspend the association agreement and the programmes involving israeli companies, often military ones. in addition, madam high representative, in the interests of both peoples, you can act to create an international protection force for the palestinian people, under the auspices of the un, which will also provide security for the israeli people. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, when we do not want to solve a problem, we use the arguments you are using now. all we have to do is call the un security council and follow the vast majority of countries which have now decided to recognise the state of palestine. moreover, what we are asking for, and the european union and the united states have the key to this problem by bringing together a number of arab countries - they have done so in the past, especially egypt - is to get us around a table, to protect the palestinian people, to recognize the state of palestine and to begin decolonisation. that's the condition of peace. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i have heard of these various initiatives and i support them. we are of course in favour of any initiative which will help to recognise the state of palestine and contribute to the security of the two peoples, to the creation of the state of palestine within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, and not to what is being done today, i.e. creating the conditions for jerusalem to be part of a future palestinian state.
madam president, madam high representative, you have condemned violence against civilians, wherever it comes from, and you have done well in doing so and we support you fully. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we do not shy away from our own responsibility. the main cause is the occupation of a territory and the denial of the fundamental rights of a people. this is the root cause of violence. and the european union has a privileged association agreement with the state of israel. for no country on the planet would accept that its funds be used to colonize occupied territories or to research weapons or drones. so i ask you, madam high representative, when will the european union finally agree to revise this cooperation agreement with the state of israel so that we can put an end to this occupation and to the development of settlements in the occupied territories?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, madam high representative, as you have so admirably and humanely stated in your opening remarks, there has never been so little hope in the israeli-palestinian conflict, and yet the path to peace must be maintained, and you are doing it. we must also give peace a chance, find a two-state solution, and i believe your determination is complete, madam high representative. to win our struggle, your struggle for peace, not only does it require leadership on both sides, as you have said, but also that we ourselves, of course, help the parties to understand each other, that we can accompany the palestinian reconciliation and define collectively the compensations that each party will need to sign a peace agreement. the quartet as well as the american leadership have reached their limits, it is time to find other solutions, and the fact that we are bringing our arab partners together is undoubtedly an undeniable asset. in conclusion, within the quartet and with our arab partners, i believe that you, madam high representative, are the balance point, the centre of the union for winning peace, and we support you.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, sudan is one of the youngest nations in the world and as such, one of the last christian countries in africa. after two million dead and more than four million refugees, sudan may be living its last days. i welcome this agreement, but i am counting on you to make this country a viable state. but we must be careful, because this agreement calls for two things. firstly, we must not forget the historic barbarism of khartoum, a barbarism which is still being perpetrated today, in particular through its military intervention. secondly, south sudan cannot be left to economic globalism because of the wealth of its subsoil. these two findings mean that we must ensure that external interference, whether political or economic, does not become the last living space for sudan today.
commissioner, we have been mobilized for ebola. 11,000 people, and we're talking about 100, 200 times that many dead. the situation in south sudan is unfortunately just one example of the chaos that european policy - indeed western policy under american leadership - leaves in its wake. in a complex tribal set between dinka and arabs, amplified by internal religious divisions, internal religious divisions also in south sudan, the unity of sudan had to be maintained at all costs. however, when it comes to supporting us policy, the questioning of borders and the partitioning of countries is possible and supported by the union. so we're still having a double language. in this case, i am not changing, i am still for national unity. south sudan is rotting now, we could even be heading for partition within partition. it is under the auspices of the un and the african union that a solution to the conflict will be found. we support the transitional government of national unity, but the division of sudan was a mistake.
author. mr president, commissioner, i am speaking on behalf of the regi committee to raise the issue of simplifying and making cohesion policy more effective for 2014-2020. i will leave it to my colleagues to give the feeling on behalf of our group. with the new multiannual financial framework launched on 1 january 2014, a new period has begun for cohesion policy. we all know that much has been done, but just because some progress has been made - it is true - we should not consider our work to be finished. our legislative work, on the contrary, is only getting stronger with the introduction of the new cohesion policy planning period and with it a number of concerns have emerged. for almost two years now, since the cohesion policy was introduced, the beneficiaries have told us about the difficulties they face on a daily basis. we are therefore faced, as legislators, with our role of observing and monitoring the implementation of this policy in all european regions. we intend to play this role to the full, commissioner, and that is why we have increased the number of hearings, exchanges of views and missions on the ground. we must do this not only to support the beneficiaries but also to know what mistakes to avoid in the future and what we could correct either during the mid-term review or for the new programming period which will have to be prepared well. the committee on regional development held a hearing on simplification about two weeks ago, and the finding is still the same: it is still very difficult to find your way through the maze of administrative maze. we must recognize, madam commissioner, that the commission is showing good will to solve this problem, and the creation of the group of independent experts is proof of that. the first meeting of this group took place - as you know - seven days ago and identified three main challenges for the coming year. this is a sign that some of the obstacles have been known to us for a very long time and that the work is proceeding very rapidly. i also tend to believe that we in the european parliament have known about these problems for a very long time, and that there are still, it must be admitted, many obstacles to the effective implementation of cohesion policy on the ground. this is true for the management of funds at european level, but it is also true at member state, regional and local level. i'd just like, if i may, to quote a line from our recent hearing. it has been said that for every new text, for every new group, more and more explanation is needed and more and more expertise is needed to find it. in fact, very often, no one is there, because there is a tendency to complexity rather than simplification. the juncker commission's credo is to legislate less and to legislate better, which means simpler and more effective regulation. in this respect, the european parliament, in its role as co-legislator, will also have to assess where we ourselves have complicated rules that are already complex and added layers that are sometimes unnecessary. we also know that there is a contradiction between the objective we all proclaim and the growing tendency to tighten up controls, to give priority to discipline, to monitor and to punish. the less trust there is between the european institutions and the beneficiaries, the more paperwork there is. we must also try to ensure that the principle of proportionality is respected. the larger the sums committed or spent, the more complex the procedures can be, if only to ensure the proper use of the funds and to avoid any risk of irregularities. and i will end, commissioner, by telling you how much we want to establish a structured dialogue with our committee, of course, but also with all the actors, and in particular the committee of the regions.
madam president, i would simply like to ask you, commissioner, about the simplification of the european funds. it is a matter of concern to many countries, to many territories, and it is a highly political matter. too many small project promoters are today discouraged by the number of parts, by the procedures they are asked to pay for, by the cost of management or the payment deadlines, and it seems to me important to think about this simplification of the european funds if we want europe to be better understood in the future. some of those who should legitimately be receiving european funds now prefer to use banks. of course we need controls - that is the role of our institution - but not only control, we also need the will to distribute european money. i would like to have an answer simply on the working party which has been set up by the commission on this subject. it seems there's a high-level working group. can you clarify that for us?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 28 october, at 12 noon. the resolution of the committee on regional development will be put to the vote at a forthcoming part-session. the competent authorities shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by maria hübner and jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the report on the reform of the electoral law of the european union (2015/2035(inl)) (a8-0286/2015)
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, thank you very much for giving me this blue card. i was struck when i heard you say that you no longer believe that we represent peoples here. you now want us to represent european parties in this electoral reform. and i, personally, think that's a mistake. i think the last chance you have to save the european union is to reconcile it with the people. i personally - this is my advice to you - am in favour of tearing down this european union. but if you want to save it, i think you should reconcile it with the peoples. what do you think? isn't this the last chance you have left?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 28 october, at 12 noon. the competent authorities shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on legal affairs on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union (09375/1/2015c0166/20152011/0901b(cod)) (rapporteur: antónio marinho e pinto) (a8-0296/2015)
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the reform proposal we are now examining, which was negotiated in the quadrilateral conference, will enable us to exercise greater budgetary control over the real needs of the court, but also to consolidate an absolutely indispensable and highly democratic function called justice, which is demanded by the citizens. since the publication of the 2012 reform proposal, the number of cases handled by the court increased by 43% in 2014. five cases have already been brought for excessive length of time, without justice being done, as mrs delvaux has pointed out, costing 27 million in damages. and you can see that this is a huge waste of time. the court's reform, which is progressive and structural, as i advocate, allows us to have three stages. and at the end of each stage, an evaluation is made to see whether or not it is necessary to go further. i therefore have no fear of the argument of financial waste; in my opinion it is demagogic. and finally, i'd like to say something. let us not underestimate the absolutely indispensable democratic function, because if europe is to look like something from the point of view of the peoples, it is an executive, it is a legislative which must go to the peoples, and it is a judiciary which must have the means to function.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this reform is a scandal, first of all because it is useless. the judges we have heard in the legal affairs committee have told us this, including mr jaeger, who is still the president of the court. so we are going to vote on a reform which will cost us some 20 million euros a year for nothing. secondly, this reform has led to numerous breaches of parliamentary procedure: breach of our rules on the rule of double reading, breach of the most basic rules of parliamentary law in the rushed vote which took place against the will of the rapporteur, mr pinto, on 8 october. that day was a sham of democracy, we hardly had time to debate. finally, the hearing of the judges took place in very difficult conditions, since i almost had to force my way into my own committee, which claimed to have refused me entry. thirdly, violation of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, since this reform implies the abolition of the civil service tribunal - by the way, hello for the respect of civil servants and employees of the european union - in defiance of this treaty which allows the creation of courts but which in no way allows them to be abolished (article 257, for those who would like to check). in the end, all this shows the weight of lobbies and private interests in the european union, which should not surprise us. we've had many examples of this before, but here's one more. the bottom line is, there are 28 high-paying judgeships to be distributed. that is why i tabled an amendment in the legal affairs committee which would prohibit members of the european parliament from becoming judges. this would at least have had the merit of recalling a great rule of separation of powers and of eliminating any risk of conflict of interest. this amendment was rejected. i have to come to my conclusion... (the president withdrew the floor)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 28 october, at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, as you can see, there is a unanimous vote today against your proposal. we are moving in that direction. so obviously this indicates two things: firstly, that the commission must rework this subject, that it cannot stop there. on the other hand, if there is unanimity, it is also because the reasons for rejecting this proposal may differ from one group to another. but it is true that today, renationalizing trade policies within the union in a more general context where we can clearly see that there is a threat, a fragility on the question of free movement, whether of human beings or of goods, does not correspond to the idea that we, at least the social democrats, have of what the european union should be. and i must admit that i was a little surprised earlier when, in support of your argument, you raised the question of democracy. because if we are now, at european level, to consider that we cannot establish democratic rules for making choices, particularly on such important matters as gmos and their marketing, and to ensure that these choices can be understood by the people, and that for this reason we should renationalize our policies, commissioner, we are embarking on a path that is being promoted by many here, at least in front of me, but not on this side of the house, and which is not the pro-european tradition in which we are, in fact, taking part. it is precisely at the level of the european union and the commission that we must know how to construct democratic choices today so that they can be affirmed. in this sense, the proposal you are making today cannot be accepted, but we cannot stand still either, and that is why we, the social democrats, and no doubt others here, will urge you, commissioner, to prepare a new proposal, based, of course, on what has already been done, on the work of parliament. but we can't stay like this. i would like to conclude by saying that the question of the agricultural model is still being asked. it is not a question of dreaming of complete self-sufficiency, for example in the matter of animal feed. however, it is clear that we cannot be in an agricultural system today which encourages the production, and therefore the massive importation, of gmos without the people even being aware of it. this is the case, for example, in the country i know best, france. i think many citizens would be surprised to know that the animals they eat are themselves eating gmos; i'm not sure they know. so, in conclusion, commissioner, we ask you not to stop today, but to continue the work. and so take our position rather as, i was going to say, an encouragement to work with us more closely, so that a new proposal can be made quickly on this subject of the marketing of gmos.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the process of authorizing the cultivation of gmos is under way, and that is a good thing! but we are merely saving time against a ruthless logic: that of the right to sell and produce without limitation and above all without precautions. the balance of power is still in favour of the cautious party, because it is based on public opinion. nevertheless, the support for agriculture and the trade in gmos is of tremendous importance, and their influence in decision-making and among opinion-makers is growing. we remember the researcher gilles-eric séralini, who in 2012 demonstrated the harmfulness of gmos after feeding rats for several weeks; the commission's proposal was rejected by the council on the basis of a controversy between the major industrial groups. it was not for scientific reasons but for commercial reasons, and the public health questions were answered only by the industrialists. so there will be no status quo, no middle ground. we must demand a ban on gmos - trade as a crop - or else we shall soon see them dumped and grown throughout europe. the commission is moving more slowly, but in the same direction as the big sellers of gmos: what is favourable to global trade inevitably finds a guilty tenderness and favour in this institution. so let's be clear-sighted and see where we're going. what is at stake is absolute control of food production and the entire food chain. the question is whether a fruit or a vegetable can be produced by nature, or whether a seed or a loaf of bread can be produced without any industrial tax. the goal is to end the free crop that produces crops without chemistry, genetics and banking. the gmo project is a global colonization by patent holders and owners of living things against the interests of the people!
mr president, commissioner, the question of gmos is back on the table. this is a particularly important issue which worries our fellow citizens and which is totally dividing the member states. i would like to support firmly the position of my group and that of our rapporteur, our colleague mrs la via, that is to say the rejection of the commission's proposal, because we are not satisfied. after the introduction of a two-tier system for authorizations for cultivation which threatens to create a real distortion of competition between our farmers, the commission is now back to the problem of marketing authorizations. we are seeing the results, however, with a staggering number of member states already calling for a ban on gm crops on their territory. the commission wants to put the blame squarely on the national governments, in order to break the deadlock. but we're going the wrong way. to avoid a difficult debate, we are going to set up an illegible hybrid system, in which gmo products, even those judged safe by efsa, could be marketed in one member state but not in another. i think that this is a major problem of legal certainty. there are about 50 imported gm products on the market in the european union. we are thus undermining the cohesion of the single market, when in reality we should be conducting a calm debate and getting out of the trap of passionate debate, trapped by an often inadequate precautionary principle which prevents us from moving forward. what is important is that the risk assessment, which is entrusted to the european food safety authority, remains science-based and continues to be conducted at european level to ensure harmonised consumer protection. in the interests of the single market, consumer protection and research, we must have common rules, certainly not renationalisation. commissioner, we are going to have to come up with a new proposal. (the speaker agrees to answer two 'blue card' questions (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, the debate on gmos is extremely sensitive, as my colleagues' questions show. on the first question of labelling, we naturally want transparency. the consumer must be informed, it is essential that there be labelling. we already have regulations on gmos on this subject. as regards the second question, i have not fully understood its content, so i shall have some difficulty in answering it. i will simply remind you that on this question of gmos, i think it is important that we have a thorough reflection based on science, because ideology cannot lead to interesting and pragmatic answers. so let us rely on science, let us trust the european food safety authority, to move forward on this issue of gmos. but what is important today, as we are talking about the single market, is to say that we are really in the presence of a breach of this single market.
mr president, commissioner, i shall not go into the reasons for the refusal, because all the groups are refusing today. it may seem strange, but this is how we face this reality today. so let's look straight ahead. tomorrow, we have to propose new legislation. this new legislation must be based on three elements. the first element is the re-evaluation of the evaluation: scientific evaluation, evaluation in relation to health, evaluation in relation to environmental risks, socioeconomic evaluation. it's only this overall assessment that makes sense. secondly, the change of rules at european level. it takes a simple majority to reject gmos at european level, not the complexity of a qualified majority. thirdly, the mandatory labelling of all animal products, eggs and milk products from animals that have consumed gmos. in the meantime, i ask you to prohibit the renewal of any old gmo and the adoption of any new authorizations. it is not possible to continue as if nothing had happened, as if this parliament were not going to vote against the european community's proposal.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals which have been put before us to regulate novel foods are diametrically opposed. on the one hand, the position of the elected representatives, who call for caution and consumer information. on the other hand, there is the council, which seems to have been consumed by the lure of profit from certain agro-food and chemical industries. technological innovation is one of the engines of european economies. it must now begin a new revolution and be accompanied by consumer safety. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. with nanomaterials, we risk a number of health scandals. the french paradox is envied all over the world, this alliance of gastronomy and health must not be attacked by a race to technology. the safety of citizens and the protection of the environment should guide all our decisions. i therefore propose that nanoparticles be banned from food or, at the very least, that consumers be informed by appropriate labelling. similarly, everything concerning the food of children should be subject to much stricter regulations with a firm ban on nanomaterials.
mr president, commissioner, we are facing an unthinkable situation in europe. more than 80 products contain nanoparticles without consumers' knowledge. no indication, except for the little e 171 logo. that's all i'm saying. this is a problem! at the same time, the largest donut company in the united states, dunkin' donuts, has just removed nanoparticles from its products because of a health risk. will europe continue in this situation, even though efsa itself admits that it does not have today the analytical means to study the real consequences of nanoparticles, which are already known to penetrate the cell wall and create a number of problems, especially among young people? and so, we have a real problem. what i am asking you today is that in the face of this public health and environmental risk, the commission should have the courage to ban the use of nanoparticles. i would not like tomorrow to have the asbestos scandal and your name to be linked to this health scandal.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, improving air quality is certainly a very ambitious objective. there are effective tools to reduce the emission of certain air pollutants, and that is the whole point of this directive. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, julie girling, for her work and conciliatory spirit. the framework for evaluating implementation is built on the member states themselves, not just on the entire territory of the union, and in a homogeneous way. i therefore insist that this flexibility be maintained. however, the objectives of reducing pollution must not override our economic interests. the inclusion of methane in this text seems to me to be highly questionable. that is why our group has tabled amendments against the burdening of this regulation with methane, which will weigh on our agricultural sector and add a lump to the foot of our farmers. this methane issue should be dealt with separately. in general, i think we should be wary of texts that cover too many areas.
madam president, commissioner, despite what i hear, what we hear from the far right and the far right in this house, yes, there is urgency, seven million people die every year because of air pollution, 600 000 people in europe die every year because of air pollution. the amendment is therefore welcome not only for health reasons but also for climatic reasons. i think she is welcome to the cop 21 we are organising in paris in a few weeks. limiting our polluting emissions, just as reducing our co2 emissions are the cornerstones of this new society we want to build. changing our society, changing the way we organize our agriculture, the way we reuse our waste to organize a circular economy: that's how we'll get the low-carbon society we want.
in writing. we need ambitious standards to combat air pollution, the poor quality of which causes more than 48 000 premature deaths a year in france. this directive is therefore a crucial legislative instrument for monitoring compliance with air quality objectives at european level. but i would like to stress the importance of realistic legislation. i therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of excluding methane and ammonia from this directive, whose unrealistic emission limits would unfairly penalise the agricultural sector, and first and foremost small farms. i would draw your attention to our amendment to exclude enteric methane from animal waste, since we do not have at present any effective technical or technological means of reducing these natural emissions. we have to ask ourselves what kind of farming model we want: animals kept indoors to reduce their intake emissions or animals raised outdoors? we cannot argue for animal welfare in the agricultural sector on the one hand and impose unreasonable constraints on our farmers on the other!
mr president, this is the question of the limit on annual methane emissions. following the sentence 'member states must at least limit their annual anthropogenic emissions of methane', i propose to add the sentence 'except for the enteric methane emissions from ruminants', which would allow us, mr president, to avoid being ridiculous in the eyes of the whole of europe. because, mr president, at the risk of disappointing you, the european parliament does not yet have the power to prevent cows from farthing or rotting.
in writing. ‒ together with my colleagues from the national front, we oppose brussels' domination of the european peoples. we believe in a europe founded on free nations and peoples, we believe in a europe proud of its christian values and its ancient greco-latin heritage. we are, however, disappointed with the european construction as it has been carried out for the last 40 years. we do not want this european union which destroys identities and buries sovereignty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the budget for 2016 will be more than eur 150 billion. i find it absolutely scandalous to punish the peoples of europe when it has become obvious that this europe has completely failed: mass immigration, mass unemployment, moral and spiritual crisis, etc. that is why i voted against the draft general budget of the european union for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep reading for the 2016 draft budget. four billion separates the council's position from that of parliament. i am sure that the final result will be far from what the members of parliament have expressed. a period of conciliation between the two arms of the budgetary authority is now opening up. i regret that our budget lacks the means, flexibility and responsiveness to deal with migration. in this respect, there is an urgent need to revise the multiannual financial framework. i regret that the european parliament has not been more rigorous in adopting its own budget. the credibility and authority of the ep in its discussions with the council depend on this.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this immigration report which calls for an increase in funding for 'migrant' aid of 1.1 million euros, an amount that will be added to the funding already voted for the 2015 budget and to all the aid released in recent months for the result we know: increased migration overwhelming.
in writing. ‒ once again, meps were asked to amend the 2016 draft budget submitted by the european commission. it is true that the eu's expenditure between 2015 and 2016 has changed almost nothing and that some amendments even went so far as to reduce the eu institutions' pharaonic expenditure. however, the report as a whole is based on the logic of increasing expenditure by means of increased contributions from the member states: an indecent prospect when we consider the role of the austerity policeman that brussels has played for several years vis-à-vis the member states! i therefore had the good sense to reject most of the amendments to re-establish the ceilings on appropriations which had been lowered in the original draft budget.
in writing. ‒ the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 already includes, in a careless way, the financing of infrastructure for the reception of illegal migrants. the rapporteur calls for an increase in this budget of eur 1.161 billion to respond to this unprecedented migration crisis. their so-called solidarity is becoming a joke at a time when millions of europeans are suffering from mass unemployment and poverty. their foreign preference is simply unworthy of politicians whose only objective should be to defend the interests of their people. this additional expenditure is being made at the expense of cohesion policy, which nonetheless reduces regional disparities within the european union and promotes the structural competitiveness of our economies. the budget also does not propose any sustainable solution to ensure the reduction of arrears of unpaid invoices in relation to the implementation of the programmes for the period 2014-2020. that is why i voted against this budget.
in writing. ‒ this report was the parliament's position on the 2016 union budget. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. it also aims to restore funding for research and transport programmes, which was cut earlier this year to finance the juncker plan. parliament set the overall level of commitment appropriations (funding available for contracts) at eur 157.42 billion and payment appropriations (money available to pay bills) at eur 146.46 billion.
in writing. ‒ together with my colleagues from the national front, we oppose the excessive influence of brussels on the peoples of europe. we believe in a europe founded on free nations and peoples, we believe in a europe proud of its christian values and its ancient greco-latin heritage. we are, however, disappointed with the european construction as it has been carried out for the last 40 years. we do not want this european union that is destroying sovereignty and destroying identities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the budget for 2016 will be more than eur 150 billion. it is scandalous to punish the peoples of europe when it has become clear that europe has completely failed: mass immigration, mass unemployment, moral and spiritual crisis, etc. i therefore voted against the general draft of the european union for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues josé manuel fernandes and gérard deprez on the amendments to the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. these amendments are aimed at supporting policies which are essential for european citizens to meet the current challenges of the european union and not at reducing the budget as envisaged in the council's proposal. parliament thus gives priority to employment, competitiveness, the agricultural crisis and the refugee crisis. for example, almost €1.16 billion was allocated to tackling the refugee crisis, €473 million to youth employment programmes, €500 million to help farmers affected by the russian embargo and €1.3 billion to the horizon 2020 research programme. this position was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the draft budget for 2016 because the budget by definition reflects the european commission's policy choices, and they are disastrous. the vast majority of the amendments to reduce the budget were supported by the national front members of parliament, but unfortunately they were not adopted.
in writing. ‒ this is the first formal opinion of the european parliament on the 2016 european budget, before the final vote in december. it is clear from the outset that none of the recommendations made in july by the same rapporteur, mr fernandes, have been followed up. the rapporteur notes that the council is increasing the obstacles to the absorption of the arrears, whereas it called for them to be absorbed 'without delay' in july. a facade of voluntarism is still displayed for 2016. and the report gives a welcome warning against fake announcements like those from the juncker investment fund leading to the stripping of existing programmes. while affirming the need for an additional billion to address the migrant crisis, the report recommends commitments for 2016 of almost 4 billion less than the 2015 budget! this report claims that we can do more with less, even though the 2015 budget has already proved insufficient! that's reason enough to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the mep voted against the draft budget of the european union for 2016. the national front opposes the domination of the european peoples by brussels. we believe in a europe based on free nations and free peoples, we believe in a europe that is proud of its values. we are, however, disappointed with the european construction as it has been carried out for the last 40 years. we do not want this european union which destroys identities and buries sovereignty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the budget for 2016 will be more than eur 150 billion. it is scandalous to punish the peoples of europe, even though it has become clear that this europe has completely failed: mass immigration, mass unemployment, moral crisis, etc. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind.
in writing. this vote concerns the adoption of several amendments to the draft budget 2016 submitted by the european commission. however, it should be remembered that for once, the member states have shown restraint since the change in the volume of eu expenditure is almost zero between this draft budget 2016 and the year 2015. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. but the overall dynamic is to increase expenditure and therefore to increase the contribution required from the member states. opposing an ever-increasing eu budget while at the same time imposing unprecedented austerity measures on the member states, i voted against most of the amendments to re-establish the ceilings on appropriations that had been lowered in the original draft budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text because we have agreed on a crisis budget which restores all the cuts made by the council. better yet, all the cuts made in the efsi agreement - the backbone of the investment stimulus plan - have been removed to maintain research and transport budgets, which are themselves efficient investment budgets. additional resources were also earmarked for the fight against youth unemployment and for aid to refugees.
in writing. ‒ this vote concerns the adoption of several amendments to the draft budget for 2016 submitted by the european commission. however, it should be remembered that for once, the member states have shown restraint since the change in the volume of eu expenditure is almost zero between this draft budget 2016 and the year 2015. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. but the overall dynamic is to increase expenditure and therefore to increase the contribution required from the member states. opposing an ever-increasing eu budget while at the same time imposing unprecedented austerity measures on the member states, i voted against most of the amendments to re-establish the ceilings on appropriations that had been lowered in the original draft budget.
in writing. ‒ the anti-corridas may be agitated by shouting for the end of european subsidies for bullfighting breeders, but they are completely ignorant. let me be clear: the cap does not finance bullfighting. the cap subsidizes cattle and calf farming without any discrimination. secondly, if countries such as spain and france want to direct part of the cap and eafrd budgets towards bullfighting, that is their absolute right, nothing prevents them from doing so. the european commission has had a clear position on this subject for many years. these amendments, even if they are adopted, are legally flawed and poorly prepared. they are therefore of no value. only the european right voted against, in its large majority, and thus respected the principle of subsidiarity and cultural freedoms. the other political families have dispersed, left, centrist, extremist. by not taking a clear stand, they have disrespected our traditions! the greens and the anti-corridas have lit a fire of straw, this year it took, but, by definition, it will extinguish itself. i'll give them an appointment at the end of the budget negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the european union budget for 2016 voted by the parliament is ambitious and realistic in view of the challenges ahead and the limited resources at our disposal. that is why i voted in favour of this text. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. on transport and longterm investment, i welcome the additional funds allocated to the connecting europe facility to step up sustainable investment in energy, telecommunications and transport infrastructure. i also welcome the adoption of five additional posts by the european railway agency compared to what the commission had proposed. as with immigration, let us stop asking europe for more and more without giving it the means to do so.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to amend the draft general budget proposed by the council. it's a deeply damaging report. the commission is also proposing to increase the budget for the european union's external assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe by eur 900 million, bringing the total budget for the migration crisis currently affecting the european continent to eur 2.1 billion. the funds are intended to 'distribute' refugees between european countries, modernise reception centres, pay for language training for asylum seekers and reinforce rescue operations in the mediterranean. it is not a question of providing the means for a firm policy aimed at strengthening border controls and returning illegal immigrants to their countries of origin. i naturally voted against this unjust report which is satisfied with mass immigration despite the high rates of unemployment and poverty in the eu member states, despite also the enormous cultural differences between the indigenous populations and the vast majority of immigrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ep reading of the draft 2016 budget. the council's position and parliament's position are separated by 4 billion, and i am sure that the final result will be far from the expectations expressed by the members of parliament. a period of conciliation between the two arms of the budgetary authority is now opening up. i regret that our budget lacks the means, flexibility and responsiveness to deal with migration. in this connection, there is an urgent need to revise the multiannual financial framework. i regret that the european parliament has not been more rigorous in adopting its own budget. the credibility and authority of the ep in its discussions with the council depend on this.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this immigration report which calls for an increase in funding for migrant aid of 1.1 million euros, an amount that will be added to the funding already voted for the 2015 budget.
in writing. ‒ this report is further proof of the overreaching nature of the eu institutions: not content with imposing ever more stifling austerity on the member states, this report is not afraid to advocate an increase in commitment appropriations for the 2016 budget to €146.5 billion (which is €4.4 billion more than what the commission itself proposed and even exceeds the ceilings of €144.7 billion decided by the eu for the year). the increase is not only a financial and economic play on the citizens of the member states, but is also aimed at financing mass immigration, since 1.2 billion euros are spent on this flood. but none of this is on par with the amount of money the commission will spend on euro-beat propaganda: €26 million will be used to serve the eu mirage. the eu's cynicism is revealed in its budget reports, and i could only vote against such a scandal.
in writing. ‒ the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 already includes, in a careless way, the financing of infrastructure for the reception of illegal migrants. the rapporteur calls for an increase in this budget of eur 1.161 billion to respond to this unprecedented migration crisis. their so-called solidarity is becoming a joke at a time when millions of europeans are suffering from mass unemployment and poverty. their foreign preference is simply unworthy of politicians whose only objective should be to defend the interests of their people. this additional expenditure is being made at the expense of cohesion policy, which nonetheless reduces regional disparities within the european union and promotes the structural competitiveness of our economies. the budget also does not propose any sustainable solution to ensure the reduction of arrears of unpaid invoices in relation to the implementation of the programmes for the period 2014-2020. that is why i voted against this budget.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted its position on the union's budget for 2016. the priorities are employment, competitiveness, the management of the refugee crisis and the agricultural crisis. it is important to build a strong and effective union budget in order to face the various challenges ahead in 2016. i hope that the european parliament will make its voice heard in the negotiations with the council. the european parliament's position is both realistic and ambitious. there will be an increase in budgets for youth employment support programmes as well as for the cosme, horizon 2020 and erasmus+ programmes. an additional eur 500 million will also be mobilised to support dairy farmers affected by the russian embargo. parliament wants to bring the union's budget into line with the political agenda europe wants. i am particularly sensitive to the funding of the pilot project on the creation of european coastguards which i proposed and which has been taken up by the european commission. i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out parliament's position on the 2016 eu budget. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i believe it is also essential to respond to the challenges of youth employment in the face of unemployment and the funding for research and transport programmes, which was cut earlier this year to fund the juncker plan. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that migration and youth employment are two priority issues on which the european union must respond quickly and effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the european parliament's 2016 budget proposal which cancels all the budget cuts initiated by the council and focuses on addressing the refugee crisis, the agricultural crisis, employment, competitiveness and programmes that are dear to me such as horizon 2020 and erasmus+. we have therefore voted for a total of eur 1.16 billion to deal with the refugee crisis in both its internal and external dimensions. this budget will continue to fund the youth employment initiative in 2016 and add €473 million for programmes to help young people find jobs. parliament also added €1.3 billion to the horizon 2020 research programme and the interconnection mechanism to offset the funds borrowed from these budget lines to finance the juncker plan guarantee. the budget also proposes to mobilise an additional eur 500 million for dairy farmers affected by the russian embargo. finally, during the vote, an amendment was tabled on the single seat, which i opposed. i am very attached to the parliament in strasbourg, the symbol of european integration.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned the general budget of the european union for 2016. filled with the demagogy of reducing the operating costs inherent in any institution, while at the same time more than €1 million is still allocated to finance the migration invasion, this report is contradictory. while the travel and other allowances used by members serve to ensure that they carry out their mandate properly, it is believed that considerable savings are made by tackling this issue, which has no weight in the union budget. europe should stop destroying its identity and its economy, at a cost of billions and even priceless costs to our heritage, rather than making demagoguery without solving the real problems of its budget. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. the european budget is the cornerstone of our actions and policies. in 2016, more than ever, this budget must enable us to meet many challenges, including the greek crisis, the youth employment initiative, the reception of migrants and the milk crisis. in order to make our political choices translate into concrete action in the daily lives of our citizens, we need more budgetary resources, which is why i supported an increase of €800 million in the european budget. we must now ensure that the council does not call into question these amounts which are primarily intended to support long-term policies and certainly not to be limited to managing the urgency of the crises we are going through. that is why, together with my s&d colleagues, we have strengthened, unlike the council, strategic funding for the recovery of growth, including horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, which funds cross-border infrastructure projects. negotiations with the council will now begin. the battle between our institutions is only just beginning, on diametrically opposed positions.
in writing. ‒ the migration crisis in europe is leading us to redefine our priorities. this naturally has an impact on the community budget. i therefore welcome the european parliament's decision to increase funding for migration by €1.16 billion. it is an emergency and a necessity. i would, however, like to make it clear that this money must be spent on appropriate measures and actions to restore control of migration flows. i also regret the vote by a majority of members against the seat of parliament in strasbourg. this has been a recurring trend for several years and reflects the weariness of these monthly transfers for a majority of meps who are well established in brussels. however, if i understand the relevance of a single seat, i think it should be in strasbourg. is it not the heart of the european construction, the symbol of franco-german friendship which remains to this day the real engine of europe? by abandoning strasbourg, we are abandoning the meaning of this great movement of solidarity and cooperation which our founding fathers wanted to establish, we are losing the memory of this tragic history which led them to found a common and unshakable foundation of values.
in writing. ‒ the draft general budget proposed by the council is to be amended. an additional €900 million is being asked from european taxpayers to be allocated to immigration policy, bringing the total budget for the migration crisis currently affecting the european continent to €2.1 billion. the funds are intended to 'distribute' refugees between european countries, to modernise reception centres, to pay for language training for asylum seekers, or to strengthen rescue operations in the mediterranean sea. it is not a question of providing the means for a firm policy aimed at strengthening border controls and returning illegal immigrants to their countries of origin. this report is unfair and complacent about mass immigration despite high unemployment and poverty rates, despite also the enormous cultural differences between the indigenous populations and the vast majority of immigrants. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues josé manuel fernandes and gérard deprez on the political resolution on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. the resolution calls for the budget for key programmes such as erasmus+ or support for small and medium-sized enterprises to be increased, as is necessary to tackle issues such as mass unemployment in the european union and the refugee crisis. this position, unlike the council's proposal, was essential for the union to be able to carry out its policies. parliament's resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016. like the other members of the national front and the europe of nations and freedoms group, i supported the vast majority of the amendments to reduce the budget, but they were not accepted. in addition, paragraph 77 of the report calls into question the position of strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament, as provided for in the treaty. it is scandalous to find such claims in a report on the budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it increases the already considerable aid to migrants by more than one million euros. he is giving in to the good immigration sentiment instead of defending the european peoples.
in writing. ‒ this is the first formal opinion of the european parliament on the 2016 european budget, before the final vote in december. it is clear from the outset that none of the recommendations made in july by the same rapporteur, mr fernandes, have been followed up. the rapporteur notes that the council is increasing the obstacles to the absorption of the arrears, whereas it called for them to be absorbed 'without delay' in july. a facade of voluntarism is still displayed for 2016. and the report gives a welcome warning against fake announcements like those from the juncker investment fund leading to the stripping of existing programmes. while affirming the need for an additional billion to address the migrant crisis, the report recommends commitments for 2016 of almost 4 billion less than the 2015 budget! the report claims that more can be done with less, even though the 2015 budget has already proved insufficient! that's reason enough to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to amend the draft general budget proposed by the council. it's a deeply damaging report. the commission is also proposing to increase the budget for the european union's external assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe by eur 900 million, bringing the total budget for the migration crisis currently affecting the european continent to eur 2.1 billion. the funds are intended to 'distribute' refugees among european countries, modernise reception centres, pay for language training for asylum seekers and reinforce rescue operations in the mediterranean. it is not a question of providing the means for a firm policy aimed at strengthening border controls and returning illegal immigrants to their countries of origin. the member voted against this unjust report which is satisfied with mass immigration despite the high rates of unemployment and poverty, despite also the enormous cultural differences between the indigenous populations and the vast majority of immigrants.
in writing. unsurprisingly, this report on the 2016 budget is further evidence of the eu's indecent arrogance in cutting its member states' budgets. it is scandalous that this report increases the commitment appropriations (to eur 146.5 billion) by eur 4.4 billion above the commission's proposal and above the ceilings decided by the eu (eur 144.7 billion) for the year. it is the biggest funder of the migration madness, since it allocates 1.2 billion to deal with the migration consequences of its irresponsible and atlanticist foreign policy. the european commission plans to spend €26 million in 2016 on advertising campaigns to serve as the eu's after-sales service, believing that it is by making the taxpayer pay for propaganda measures that the public will be convinced of the eu's goodness. finally, what can be said about the sardanapalesque lifestyle of the president of the parliament, who needs 35 staff and 2 limousines to meet his obligations, if not that it reveals a total disconnection of the european institutions vis-à-vis the people. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for 2016. the text stresses the need to strengthen the response to the refugee crisis, the agricultural crisis and the employment and competitiveness issues. in particular, i approved the continued funding of the youth employment initiative and the allocation of €473 million for programmes to help young people enter the labour market. the parliament's vote allowed for the allocation of €1.3 billion to the horizon 2020 research programme and the interconnection mechanism to compensate for the funds withdrawn from them to finance the juncker plan guarantee. the text also calls for support for programmes for the training of young people such as cosme and erasmus+.
in writing. the resolution on the eu general budget for 2016 confirms the need for parliament to restore budget lines where the council, obsessed with widespread austerity, wants to see only cuts. it is therefore rightly proposed to increase the budgets allocated to key programmes such as the youth initiative, horizon 2020, development funds and funds for the support of refugees. however, unfortunately parliament's proposal is far too weak and will not be able to cope with the urgent needs of the moment, such as the migrant crisis, or even with the council which will seek to cut the european budget from the programmes which are more than necessary. despite the limitations imposed on us by the multiannual financial framework, parliament should have the audacity to make a more ambitious proposal than a semblance of the status quo. for these reasons i abstained on the vote on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ unsurprisingly, this report on the 2016 budget is further evidence of the eu's indecent arrogance in cutting the budgets of its member states. it is scandalous that this report increases the commitment appropriations (to eur 146.5 billion) by eur 4.4 billion above the commission's proposal and above the ceilings decided by the eu (eur 144.7 billion) for the year. it is the biggest funder of the migration madness, since it allocates 1.2 billion to deal with the migration consequences of its irresponsible and atlanticist foreign policy. the european commission plans to spend €26 million in 2016 on advertising campaigns to serve as the eu's after-sales service, believing that it is by making the taxpayer pay for propaganda measures that the public will be convinced of the eu's goodness. finally, what can be said about the sardanapalesque lifestyle of the president of the parliament, who needs 35 staff and 2 limousines to fulfil his obligations, if not that it reveals a total disconnection of the european institutions vis-à-vis the peoples. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the anti-corridas may be agitated by shouting for the end of european subsidies for bullfighting breeders, but they are completely ignorant. let me be clear: the cap does not finance bullfighting. the cap subsidizes cattle and calf farming without any discrimination. secondly, if countries such as spain and france want to direct part of the cap and eafrd budgets towards bullfighting, that is their absolute right, nothing prevents them from doing so. the european commission has had a clear position on this subject for many years. these amendments, even if they are adopted, are legally flawed and poorly prepared. they are therefore of no value. only the european right voted against, in its large majority, and thus respected the principle of subsidiarity and cultural freedoms. the other political families have dispersed, left, centrist, extremist. by not taking a clear stand, they have disrespected our traditions! the greens and the anti-corridas have lit a fire of straw, this year it took, but, by definition, it will extinguish itself. i'll give them an appointment at the end of the budget negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2016 budget proposal which cancels all the budget cuts initiated by the council and provides responses to recent events while maintaining the priorities to be pursued. the text we voted for includes eur 1.16 billion for dealing with the refugee crisis, both in its internal and external dimension. the union will thus have a greater budgetary capacity to implement the measures adopted in recent months, such as the establishment of hotspots, the mechanism for relocating refugees and the european supervision of the coastguard. the european union is also committed to tackling the root causes of the crisis with an additional eur 250 million for neighbourhood, development cooperation and humanitarian aid. the text also continues the eu's efforts to promote employment and competitiveness by increasing funding for the horizon 2020 programmes (an additional 1.3 billion), erasmus+ and the youth employment initiative. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the financial contribution for the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) to eur 500 million. this budget responds to the challenges we face and is committed to growth and jobs, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation calls for doubling the number of judges in the court of justice to 56 under the pretext of a more rapid european justice system. i am opposed to any increase in the number of judges. my colleagues in the juri committee have proposed an increase in the number of referenda and translators. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i regard this reform as an insult to the european taxpayer, because the union is raising its expenditure very lightly in the midst of an economic crisis. the procedural legality of the process is also flawed since the original request of the cjeu does not, until proven otherwise, serve as a legislative proposal. our group, the eldr, therefore tabled a single amendment rejecting the report, which i logically voted for.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the court of justice is an urgent need in the face of the rise in litigation, particularly competition. i deplore the national selfishness which has led the council to double the number of judges (28) so that each member state has its own judge. the court proposed an increase of 12 judges, but the council did not follow its recommendations. to avoid institutional deadlock and the piling up of cases, parliament endorsed this maximalist agreement.
in writing. ‒ whether or not to increase the number of judges at the european court of justice is not a trivial matter when we know that its case-law has done as much for community integration as the many reforms of the european treaties. today, the number of cases decided by the general court has been for several years lower than the number of cases brought and is constantly growing (more than 65% between 2000 and 2010). all this obviously entails costs and lengthened time for procedures. the increase in the number of judges is the structural solution adopted by the council, the commission and parliament. i have proposed with my italian colleague laura ferrara amendments to increase the number of judges at the court by 12, seven of whom are judges at the civil service tribunal, which is due to disappear. a total of 40 judges instead of the current 28 seems to be an appropriate and less costly response than a doubling to 56 judges as envisaged. the reform of the european court of justice has been under discussion for almost five years now. it is high time today to get out of what has become a gas factory.
in writing. ‒ the aim is therefore to double the number of judges in the tribunal to 56 judges, whereas the court's initial request was to appoint 12 judges. the arguments used for this reform are the increase in the number of cases whereas the figures and the statements of the judges are contradictory, or the too long trial period, which is still a false argument because it is acceptable in the eyes of the echr, given the uncompressible time due to translation and the complexity of cases in competition matters in particular. in committee, the elected enl members proposed to increase the number of referendaires and translators and not the number of judges. this reform increases eu spending very lightly at a time when people are suffering from austerity. in addition, the procedural legality of the whole process is tainted since, in reality, the subject under consideration is not the appointment of 12 additional judges, but that of 28 additional judges and the abolition of a specialised court (tfp). i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the proposed reform is to double the number of judges at the general court of the european union (from 28 to 56) whereas the court's initial request was for the appointment of 12 additional judges. it should be noted that the two courts directly concerned by the proposal (the civil service tribunal and the general court) and the staff concerned were not even consulted. the reasons given (increase in the number of cases and extension of the trial period) are unfounded and contradict the available figures, the statements of judges of the general court and the case law of the echr. gilles lebreton and i proposed an increase in the number of referees and translators, not the number of judges. at a time when the european union is imposing austerity measures of unprecedented violence, it is proposing a costly and unnecessary reform. in addition, it is proposed to abolish the civil service tribunal, which is illegal under the treaty. i therefore voted against the amendment.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this reform is to double the number of judges in the general court to 56, whereas the initial request of the court of justice of the union was to appoint 12 additional judges. these appointments are supposed to help to reduce their workload, which has been steadily increasing due to a sharp increase in the number of cases, which is incorrect. in reality, the council proposed to double the number of judges to satisfy the national authorities of the member states who could not agree on the nationality of the judges to be appointed without concern for the interests of european taxpayers who are already suffering from the austerity cures imposed on them. in the name of the separation of powers, the europe of nations and freedoms group has tabled an amendment to the effect that no member of parliament or european official who has worked in the decision-making or legislative process can become a judge. i therefore voted in favour of the single rejection amendment tabled by our group.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the reform of the court of justice of the european union. since 2012, the number of cases handled by the court has increased by 43%. the main reason for this dysfunction is a cruel lack of judgment. the consequences are that the right of european citizens to be heard within a reasonable time is infringed and the functioning of the single market is hindered. in this critical context, the european parliament took its responsibilities by calling for the appointment of 12 new judges in 2015 (already provided for in the 2015 union budget), followed by the transfer of the 7 judges of the civil service tribunal and its staff, and then the appointment of the last 9 judges in 2019. i particularly welcome the inclusion in this reform of two evaluation reports prior to the second and third phases, which i called for during the negotiations, and whose purpose is to assess the actual budgetary needs of the court throughout the reform. these reports must be such as to assist the court in its tasks while respecting the budgetary exemplarity to which the european institutions are bound.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to increase the court of justice of the european union by 12 new judges, bringing the total number of judges to 56. following a request from the court justified by the increase in the number of cases to be dealt with and the length of time for the examination of cases, the report introduces the principle of gender balance in the context of this appointment and proposes a five-year review clause to assess the efficiency of the court of fifty-six judges and the use of resources. the court of justice plays a key role in ensuring the stability and legal certainty that citizens and the economic sector need, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ since 2012, cases before the court of justice of the european union have increased by 43%. the court fails to deal with them in time and accumulates a significant delay, which affects the quality of the judgments delivered. this malfunction cannot continue. it is therefore essential to improve the functioning of the court through structural reform. internal reorganisation measures within the institution should ensure the efficient use of existing human resources. the civil service tribunal will also be abolished and its resources and staff transferred to the court of justice. the court also needs to be equipped to function better. this requires a progressive and equal increase in the number of judges. stage reports will allow an assessment of actual budgetary needs as well as progress in the handling of cases under the reform.
in writing. ‒ this reform concerned the change in the organisation of the court of justice of the european union (cjeu). while the first version had the avowed sole purpose of appointing twelve additional judges, this second reading reveals a much more important project. from the simple appointment of a few judges to the increase to fifty-six judges and the abolition of the civil service tribunal, it is a true trojan horse that is revealed today. by including this new legislative proposal in the process, the commission is breaking free from the basic formal rules inherent in legislative development in parliament. our group, on the contrary, had proposed, in order to reduce the time-lag, not the appointment of co-opted persons, but rather the increase in the number of translators and referendaires; this is the real origin of the over-extended trial period. this amendment was rejected without debate. i objected to this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it aims to increase the power of judges within the european union.
in writing. i voted against this report. not only because it was adopted in committee under conditions which were completely undemocratic, as my colleague mr lebreton pointed out yesterday in the debate. not just because it violates treaties. but mostly because it's completely useless, costly useless. even the judges of the court seem to agree. they asked for a little more money, but not for double their numbers! it must be said that the european union's glut of regulations can only lead to an increase in litigation and requests for preliminary rulings. because, contrary to what the commission tells us every year, the europe of brussels does not legislate better and more clearly: it regulates and constrains everything, with cloudy and obscure texts, like the reach regulation killing the french chemical industry, or like the thousands of pages of banking and financial legislation, to which are added the thousands of pages of related delegated acts ... before thinking of increasing the number of judges, we should think of stopping this tide of legislation that is overwhelming european businesses and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this recommendation is to double the number of judges in the court to 56 under the pretext of improving the speed of european justice. we are opposed to any increase in the number of judges, but we have proposed an increase in the number of referees and translators. we also tabled an amendment to prevent former meps or european civil servants from becoming judges at the court of justice of the european union in the name of the separation of powers (first amendment to be voted on, rejected without debate). this reform shows a profound disregard for the european taxpayer, because the union is increasing its spending very lightly at a time when the people are suffering from austerity. the procedural legality of the whole process is also flawed since the original request of the cjeu does not, until proven otherwise, serve as a legislative proposal. our group, the enl, has therefore tabled a single amendment rejecting this reform.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr antónio marinho i pinto, on the status of the court of justice of the eu. the purpose of this text is to respond to a request by the court to increase the number of judges, currently set at 28, to cope with the increase in cases pending before the court. the number of judges will be doubled and will be accompanied by a gender balance criterion and a revision clause. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) is facing an increasing number of cases as a result of the enlargement of its competences and the new member states that have joined the eu. it was therefore necessary to amend the statute of the court by doubling the number of its judges in order to speed up pending proceedings before the cjeu and to introduce a gender balance criterion in the appointment of judges.
in writing. ‒ the europe of nations and freedoms group has tabled an alternative motion to replace the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs on the number of judges in the european court of justice. the aim of the reform advocated by the committee is to double the number of judges in the court to 56, whereas the court's initial request was to appoint 12 judges. in committee, the group had voted against any increase in the number of judges, but had instead proposed an increase in the number of referees and translators. these amendments were not adopted. this is a profound disregard for the european taxpayer, because the union is increasing its spending very lightly at a time when people are suffering from austerity. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. no impact studies have been carried out and no alternatives have been considered.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it doubles the number of judges on the court when there was no need to do so. i have fought with all my strength, with the help of the rapporteur, mr marinho e pinto, who has dissociated himself from his own majority, against this ignominy dictated by private appetites. it will cost us more than 20 million euros a year, which will fatten the caciques, when it could have been used to alleviate the misery of some european peoples.
in writing. - i voted against this reform! this process, which is on the verge of legality, is being carried out in the utmost disregard for democracy and the citizens: where the court of justice had asked for the appointment of 12 additional judges, it is now 28 new judges that should be appointed, with the addition of the abolition of a specialised court. the whole 'normal' legislative process has been ignored and ended with a decision that will cost european citizens a fortune, without any impact analysis or evaluation being carried out!
in writing. ‒ the eu is proposing an increase in the budget of its court of justice. of course, this court deals with important cases, for example environmental legislation. but the bottleneck that justifies this reform is mainly the eu's contentious state aid and recent developments in the banking union and the common foreign and security policy. i therefore oppose any increase in the weight of this court under these conditions. the report proposes that judges be appointed on a parity basis. but it is also a question of ensuring the transparency of these appointments to avoid the current pitfalls where the judge appointed by france is a former member of a european affairs firm. i object to this text.
in writing. this recommendation aims to double the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union to 56, whereas the cjeu initially requested the appointment of 12 additional judges on the grounds that the number of cases had increased (whereas the data and statements of the judges are contradictory) but also that the time to deliver a judgment would be too long (whereas the ecthr did not find an unreasonable time limit given the translation and the complexity of the cases in competition matters in particular). this is why the enl group proposed to increase the number of referees and translators, not the number of judges. in the end, this reform increases the european union's expenditure in an indecent way, while at the same time imposing an unbearable austerity on the people. moreover, the procedure is tainted with gross irregularities since, in reality, the subject under consideration is not the appointment of 12 additional judges, but that of 28 additional judges and the abolition of a specialised court (tfp). i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union (cjeu). in 2011, an initiative was filed by the court to increase the number of judges by 12 to cope with the increase in pending court cases. the text proposed to support the council's position in favour of increasing the number of judges. at the request of the european parliament, a gender balance criterion was introduced, as well as a clause for the revision of administrative expenditure during the second and third phases of the enlargement of the court.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation aims to double the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union to 56, whereas the cjeu initially requested the appointment of 12 additional judges on the grounds that the number of cases had increased (whereas the data and statements of the judges are contradictory) but also that the time taken to deliver a judgment would be too long (whereas the ecthr did not find an unreasonable time taken in view of the translation and the complexity of the cases in competition matters in particular). this is why the enl group proposed to increase the number of referees and translators, not the number of judges. in the end, this reform increases the european union's expenditure in an indecent way, while at the same time imposing an unbearable austerity on the people. moreover, the procedure is tainted with gross irregularities since, in reality, the subject under consideration is not the appointment of 12 additional judges, but that of 28 additional judges and the abolition of a specialised court (tfp). i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in view of the very high workload faced by the judges of the court of justice of the union, an initiative in 2011 proposed to add 12 judges to the current 28. this would have allowed more cases to be processed and would have shortened waiting times. finally, in the absence of consensus among the member states, the council agreed to double the number of judges. the european parliament adopted this recommendation, which aims to amend protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union. the text will then be debated at second reading. i voted in favour of this report. the increase in the number of judges would make the cjeu more efficient.
in writing. ‒ in voting for the report on the statute of the court of justice of the european union, i voted against the council's proposals to increase the number of judges at the court of justice of the european union by 28 and abolish the civil service tribunal. while it is conceivable that the court of justice of the european union may need to increase its staff to meet the gradual expansion of its powers, the solution does not lie in a disorderly recruitment of judges, but must be part of a rational reorganisation. i therefore support the initial proposal of the court of justice of the european union, namely the recruitment of 12 new judges and the preparation of a report to analyse the real needs of the court of justice of the european union. indeed, the recruitment of registry staff or referendaries would be more appropriate to the situation given the budgetary requirements faced by the institution. it would then appear unacceptable that the choice of the number of judges to be recruited responds less to a need of the court than to an arrangement between member states.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for the doubling of the number of judges in the court of justice of the european union (cjeu). in view of the constant increase in the number of actions brought before the cjeu, it is necessary to provide the institution with more resources. the text therefore provides for several measures: increasing the number of judges to 56 (i.e. 2 judges per member state), introducing rules to ensure parity, the need to carry out an impact study to assess the effectiveness of such a measure, and a review of this provision in 5 years. i would like to stress the essential role of the european court of justice and the need to give it the means to carry out its task; i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this text shows a profound disregard for the money of european taxpayers, as the union increases its spending very lightly at a time when people are suffering from austerity. furthermore, the procedural legality of the whole process is called into question. the appointment of 28 additional judges (instead of the 12 required by the court) and the abolition of a specialised court. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. furthermore, no impact studies have been carried out and no alternative solutions have been considered. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to establish technical rules that will both preserve fisheries resources and safeguard the interests of fishermen. the first point raised by this draft was the request of the black sea coastal member states to be allowed to continue to use trawls and gillnets. this request was the subject of a compromise: trawling along the black sea coast is exceptionally permitted, but this derogation cannot constitute a legal precedent. the second point was raised by several states, including spain, which requested derogations to continue harvesting red coral, a protected species. this was also the subject of a compromise: states which have established or will establish, within the next three years, a national management framework, will be able to continue exploiting red coral, but in the event of a threat to this species, the commission will intervene. these derogations will expire at the end of 2015. these measures strike a healthy balance between protecting the environment and allowing member states to obtain derogations. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation because it is simply intended to transpose relevant provisions of the gfcm to ensure that they are applied uniformly and effectively throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ this text should define technical measures to preserve fisheries resources in a 'difficult' mediterranean context (overfishing + pollution in particular), while respecting the interests of fishermen. the first concern is that it is permissible, exceptionally, to use these devices in the black sea coastal area but these derogations could not constitute a precedent in any future legal act. the second concern is that some states, including spain, have requested derogations to continue harvesting red coral, an endangered species, but the country must present, within three years, common recommendations, accompanied by a national management framework. i voted for this text because the idea is, as is often the case, to strike a balance between protecting the marine environment and the interests of fishermen, and it is the right thing to do.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text, which is a step in the right direction, given that the idea is to strike a balance between protecting the marine environment and the interests of fishermen. however, this report was not voted on in plenary.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to define technical measures that will preserve fisheries resources while protecting the interests of fishermen. for example, an exceptional derogation has been proposed, at the request of member states, to allow fishermen to continue to use trawls and gillnets in the black sea. the report also introduces a further derogation which allows fishermen to harvest red coral, an endangered species. the member states concerned will have to submit joint recommendations, accompanied by a national management framework, within three years. finally, the use of remotely controlled underwater vehicles for the observation of red coral is still authorised, provided that these vehicles are not equipped with arms allowing the cutting of coral. these derogations, which expire by 31 december 2015, are a compromise for the protection of the environment and the safety of our fishing vessels. that is why i voted for these provisions.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel mato report transposes into eu law the measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) at its annual sessions in 2011, 2012 and 2013. the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation established in accordance with article xiv of the fao constitution. its main objectives are to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and the intermediate waters. the cgpm has the authority to adopt binding decisions (recommendations) in its field of competence. the transposition provides for technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm area. the report also implements into union law certain measures concerning the fishing of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea. i support the agreement reached in the trilogue between parliament and the council on 26 march 2015.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to incorporate the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) into european fisheries legislation. established in 1949, the gfcm covers the mediterranean, the black sea and adjacent waters and includes both eu countries and countries in eastern europe and the mediterranean region. its main tasks are to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living aquatic resources and to promote cooperation projects in the field of training. the gfcm has adopted a series of measures to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, in particular as regards red coral, seabirds, sea turtles and sharks. i have supported this report because these objectives are already provided for in european legislation.
in writing. ‒ the report sought to define technical measures to preserve fisheries resources in the mediterranean. the problem was the necessary balance between the problems of overfishing, pollution and the economic interest of fishermen. a coherent dialogue between the various interests involved is proposed here. this means limiting pollution, taking care of overfishing and renewing marine resources and finally granting derogations to fishermen. i have voted in favour of this report, as i see it as a balanced compromise in a context of economic difficulties for fishermen in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it strikes a balance between protecting the environment and the interests of fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to define technical measures which will make it possible to preserve fisheries resources and safeguard the interests of fishermen. the first point raised by this project was the request of the black sea coastal member states to be allowed to continue to use trawls and gillnets. this request is subject to a compromise: it will therefore be allowed, exceptionally, to use these trawls along the black sea coast. the second point was raised by several states, including spain, which requested derogations to continue harvesting red coral, a protected species. this request is also subject to a compromise: states that have established or will establish, within the next three years, a national management framework, will be able to continue exploiting red coral. if there is a threat to this species, the commission will then intervene to request changes to these national management frameworks. the use of remotely controlled underwater vehicles for red coral prospecting will therefore be allowed to continue, provided that they are not used for cutting and harvesting. these derogations will expire at the end of 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague gabriel mato, which aims to transpose into european law the measures adopted since 2011 by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. the aim of this regional organisation is to promote the rational management of marine resources and it has adopted binding measures, not covered so far by european law, to reduce bycatch and protect certain species. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i am, like the other members of the front national, in general in favour of the provisions relating to fishing in the area covered by the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. these technical measures are the result of a compromise between the european institutions and the member states. the idea is, as is often the case, to strike a balance between the protection of the marine environment and the interests of fishermen.
in writing. i voted for this text. the text, which was the result of negotiations between the european institutions, which want to protect the environment, and the member states, which want to defend the interests of their fishermen, sets out technical measures to preserve fisheries resources in the mediterranean.
in writing. ‒ at first reading, parliament adopted an ambitious text to tighten fishing conditions for red coral and small pelagic fisheries with a view to their conservation. and also to prevent the accidental capture of protected seabirds, sea turtles, seals, cetaceans and rays and sharks. but, following the trilogue, the council weakened the text considerably. for example, the harvesting of red coral from more than 50 metres below the surface, which was theoretically prohibited, is now permitted with many exceptions. i am voting against this text which conscientiously denies any ecological advancement.
in writing. the aim of this recommendation is to define technical provisions for the conservation of fishery resources in the context of overfishing and pollution in the mediterranean, while respecting the interests of fishermen. the first concern is therefore the authorization, on an exceptional basis, to use these craft in the black sea coastal zone, but these derogations could not constitute a precedent in any future legal act. the second concern is that some states, including spain, have requested derogations to continue harvesting red coral, an endangered species, but they must present, within three years, joint recommendations accompanied by a national management framework. i voted for this text because i believe it seeks to strike an acceptable balance between the protection of the marine environment and the interests of fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the provisions for fishing in the area covered by the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the aim is to transpose into union law the decisions adopted by the commission which are aimed at promoting the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and the intermediate waters. i therefore supported the technical measures envisaged by this commission to ensure the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the area covered by this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this recommendation is to define technical provisions for the conservation of fisheries resources in the context of overfishing and pollution in the mediterranean, while respecting the interests of fishermen. the first concern is that it is permissible, exceptionally, to use these devices in the black sea coastal area, but these derogations could not constitute a precedent in any future legal act. the second concern is that some states, including spain, have requested derogations to continue harvesting red coral, an endangered species, but they must present, within three years, joint recommendations accompanied by a national management framework. i voted for this text because i believe it seeks to strike an acceptable balance between the protection of the marine environment and the interests of fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved the text on the provisions for fishing in the area covered by the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). i voted in favour of this text. it enables the measures adopted by the cgpm to be transposed into union law and strengthens cooperation between the european commission and the cgpm.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which transposes into union law the measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) at its 2011, 2012 and 2013 sessions. the cgpm was established in 1949. it is a regional fisheries management organisation whose main objectives are the promotion of fishing, the conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and the intermediate waters. in 2011, 2012 and 2013, the gfcm adopted a series of measures to ensure the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans during fishing activities, a high level of protection of sharks and rays against fishing activities and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea. eu regulation 343/2011 provides for certain provisions on fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement and it is necessary to amend that regulation to include those gfcm recommendations.
in writing. ‒ the technical measures presented in this text are the result of a simple compromise between the european institutions and the member states, the idea being as often to strike a balance between the protection of the marine environment and the interests of fishermen. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission's legislative proposal to give member states the possibility to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food or feed on their territory is unacceptable. it amounts to renationalising the market and is therefore in contradiction with the internal market. this decision would inevitably be challenged by the eu court of justice, but also probably by the wto bodies. moreover, this would probably not prevent trade diversion and hence the presence of gm feedstock in food and feed in countries which would refuse to import it. it should be noted that 19 out of 28 member states have banned the cultivation of gmos on their soil and that 59% of citizens believe that gmos are dangerous. the commission is flouting democracy and the rights of the majority of citizens who are opposed to gmos. while it refuses to ban them on european territory, it is continually and too easily disposed of by the member states and takes too much for granted by the multinational companies which own gmos. this game of deceit cannot be tolerated any longer. i shall therefore vote for the amendment which proposes rejecting the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ my colleagues and i believe that the so-called freedom of the member states is a deception, as the laws of the internal market and the dynamics of integration are always a priority for the commission. the conditions imposed for the suspension of the use of such products are drastic and reduce to nothing the possibilities for member states to protect themselves. the enl group tabled amendments to replace the term 'use' with 'placing on the market', which is broader and more appropriate. the rapporteur proposes to reject the commission's proposal and calls for a new proposal without conditions, that is to say, without the framework or requirements previously suggested by the european parliament, which our group opposes. between these two alternatives, which i am opposed to, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the provision to leave member states the choice to restrict or prohibit the sale and use of food or feed containing eu-approved gmos on their territory. i am afraid that this legislation will prove unworkable and will lead to the reintroduction of border controls between pro- and anti-gmo countries.
in writing. ‒ with this report, the european commission has brought together the political groups unanimously against its own proposal. i agree with my colleagues in the committee that the so-called freedom of the member states is a deception, the laws of the internal market and the dynamics of integration are always a priority for the commission. this semi-freedom is clearly apparent in the conditions imposed for the suspension of the use of such products: - the period during which member states must refrain from acting and for the commission to examine the member state's request; - the risk assessment carried out at european level; - the 'compelling' reasons which must justify the member state's decision, on a rather narrow legal basis. the rapporteur's proposal was for a rejection with a request for a new proposal without conditions and i am therefore opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ the commission, for whom the laws of the internal market and the dynamics are always a priority, has made the political groups unanimous against its own proposal. member states are placed in a situation of semi-liberty, as evidenced in particular by the european risk assessment and the compelling reasons which must justify the member state's decision. the rapporteur proposed rejection with a request for a new proposal without conditions and i therefore opposed it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which amends the framework regulation on the possibility for member states to restrict or provisionally prohibit the use of food for genetically modified animals. we regret that this freedom of action is too restricted. member states must wait for the commission's agreement before introducing these restrictions. moreover, the grounds on which the national authorities may initiate such proceedings are limited. we are aware that the commission gives priority to the laws of the internal market. meps also want to see the eu's role in the fight against terrorism strengthened, and to ensure that the eu's role in the fight against terrorism is strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr giovanni la via, which proposes to reject the commission's proposal. the proposal was to allow member states to restrict or prohibit, under certain conditions, the use of genetically modified food on their territory, even after such products have been authorised. such a proposal would be contrary to the maintenance of a strong internal market and would tend to re-create barriers between the 28 member states. i am particularly sorry that this proposal was not based on an assessment of the potential impact of these measures on the agricultural sector, which is essentially dependent on the supply of proteins from genetically modified sources. for these reasons, i thought that was an irresponsible proposal.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to reject the european commission's proposal to allow member states to restrict or prohibit, under certain conditions, the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory, after they have been authorised on the european market. the rapporteur, who enjoys wide support in the european parliament, justifies this rejection on two main grounds. firstly, the european commission has not carried out any impact analysis to assess the consequences of this measure on the functioning of the internal market. secondly, the decision is incompatible with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) according to which any such restriction must be proportionate, non-discriminatory and justified by overriding reasons. i also believe that such a measure would be unworkable in practice, given that there is no longer any border control in the agricultural sector, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the la via report on the marketing and use of gmos. it was a request to reject the european commission's proposal. the commission's proposal was intended to renationalize the procedure for authorizing the marketing of gmo products and thus weaken the role and the joint scientific evaluation of the european food safety authority. this proposal would have dealt a severe blow to the single market, which we are trying to preserve and consolidate.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rejected on wednesday, 28 october, a legislative proposal from the european commission which aimed to allow eu countries to restrict (or not) the sale and use of food containing gmos on their territory. i welcome this firm rejection by the european parliament, which has repeatedly and firmly told the commission that we are against gmos and against an "à la carte" system which would allow states to authorise or not to authorise gmos on their territory. this is a strong and repeated position of our assembly, which clearly says no to gmos until their safety has been demonstrated. we therefore referred this file to the european commission for "review".
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which rejects the european commission's proposal. after the introduction of a two-tier system for authorizations for gmo cultivation, which threatens to create a real distortion of competition between our farmers, the commission is now back to the problem of marketing authorizations. the renationalisation of authorisation procedures would undermine the cohesion of the single market. to avoid a difficult debate, we would have set up a system that was completely illegible. whether we are for or against gmos, i find it regrettable that the debate is totally ideologized, to the detriment of science and a real risk assessment.
in writing. the european commission's proposal to reform the procedure for authorising the import of gmos was not acceptable. it is therefore only natural that it should have been rejected by parliament. the draft legislation would have allowed any eu member state to restrict or prohibit the sale and use of food or feed containing gmos on its territory. it was both incoherent, impractical and inconsistent. incoherent, because it was thus against the idea of free movement of goods and turned its back on all our policies aimed at achieving a unified market. this is impractical, because a return to border controls would certainly have been very difficult to implement and would probably have been challenged by the court of justice of the european union and the wto bodies. incompatible, because we have to make assertive choices on the question of gmos. for my part, i am, together with the elected representatives of my group, a firm advocate against the cultivation and use of gmos. gmos are both a symbol of productivist agriculture and a failure to respect the precautionary principle. our agriculture, our food, our economic development must take a completely different direction.
in writing. ‒ our position on this issue remains the same: the so-called freedom of the member states is a deception, the laws of the internal market and the dynamics of integration are still a priority for the commission. for example, the conditions imposed for the suspension of the use of such products are drastic and reduce to zero the possibilities for member states to protect themselves. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, mr giovanni la via, on the commission's proposal on the use of genetically modified food and feed. the commission's proposal was aimed at renationalising the procedure for marketing authorisation for gmo products by weakening the role and the joint scientific evaluation of the european food safety authority. the motion for a resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the commission's proposal to remove europe's right to legislate on genetically modified organisms (gmos). this resulted in a de facto transfer of these authorisation rights from the union to the member states and thus undermined the cohesion of the single market.
in writing. ‒ building on an initial success on the cultivation of gmos, which now allows member states to choose whether or not to grow them on their territory, whereas previously they had to ask for authorisation from the majority of member states, the commission wanted to repeat this move to encourage the import of gm-based food within the union. the text it submitted to us was therefore intended to allow the states to decide on their own whether to authorize these imports without the agreement of the majority of them. in order to facilitate the ongoing trade negotiations with the united states - which is one of its priorities - the commission has once again tried to undermine the european front against genetically modified organisms by allowing them to enter european territory. i voted against this text, of course, in order to refuse any facilitation of the import of gmos and i continue to oppose their production on european territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the legislative resolution on the use of genetically modified food and feed. the europe of nations and freedoms group had tabled nine amendments aimed at replacing the term 'use' with 'placing on the market', improving the use of the precautionary principle and giving member states real freedom. i can only regret that the rapporteur's proposal, mr la via, to reject the commission's proposal was adopted.
in writing. - i voted against it. our position remains the same as for all previous votes on gmos: we are formally opposed to it. as we have said time and again, the so-called freedom of the member states is a deception, the laws of the internal market and the dynamics of integration are always a priority for the commission. we are against it.
in writing. ‒ in its proposal, the commission suggests allowing member states to restrict or prohibit, under strict conditions, the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory after these products have been authorised ('withdrawal option'). the commission could have gone further and simply banned these products, especially when we know that the gmos placed on the european market are fraudulent and do not correspond to the declarations. this decision will in any case be difficult for the member states to apply because of the lack of control. the rapporteur opposes this proposal because 'the union remains heavily dependent on the supply of genetically modified proteins'. in france, 80% of farm animals are fed gmos, and they account for 80% of the feed used in livestock farming: all the more reason to ban them! contrary to the rapporteur's claim that 'the proposal could have a negative impact on agriculture in the union', i say that the future of european agriculture is based on 100% gmo-free livestock farming. i am voting for this report, which has the sole merit of underlining the invalidity of the commission's proposal.
in writing. this la via report concerns the use of genetically modified food and feed. the commission's proposal has succeeded in winning the unanimous support of all the political groups against it. the so-called freedom of the member states in this matter is a deception, since the principles of the internal market and european integration are being put on a pedestal. the period during which member states must refrain from acting in order for the commission to examine the request, the risk assessment at european level and the compelling reasons for the member states' decision indicate a very limited freedom of action for the member states on this crucial issue. i voted against this text, since the rapporteur's proposal was one of rejection with a request for a new proposal without conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the marketing and use of gm feed. a few months after the adoption of new rules on the cultivation of gmos, the commission's proposal was rejected, which would have resulted in the authorisation procedure in this area being nationalised again and the role of the european food safety authority in the area of joint scientific evaluation being weakened. this vote supports the single market, which is more than ever needed to be consolidated.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which proposes to reject the commission's decision allowing member states to withdraw genetically modified food and feed from their markets. the measures adopted by the commission call for the renationalisation of trade and public health policies, thus calling into question the european competence in the movement of goods. moreover, the 'withdrawal option' and the blocking of products at the borders are technically unfeasible. the european parliament is calling on the commission to make a more constructive proposal by assessing the impact of the measures on the european market and by allowing the establishment of a lasting situation to settle once and for all the question of gmos arriving or circulating in the union.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. a system such as the one proposed would not have prevented the presence of raw materials from gmos in countries which would refuse to import them: nothing would have been controllable as regards the use of gmos. given my strong opposition to gmos, as do many european citizens, i could not vote in favour of such a text.
in writing. ‒ this la via report concerns the use of genetically modified food and feed. the commission's proposal has succeeded in winning the unanimous support of all the political groups against it. the so-called freedom of the member states in this matter is a deception, since the principles of the internal market and european integration are being put on a pedestal. the period during which member states must refrain from acting in order for the commission to examine the request, the risk assessment at european level and the compelling reasons for the member states' decision indicate a very limited freedom of action for the member states on this crucial issue. i voted against this text, since the rapporteur's proposal was one of rejection with a request for a new proposal without conditions.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rejected the report on the use of genetically modified food and feed. i voted against this text because i believe it calls into question the role of the european food safety authority in the authorisation of gmos within the union. in addition, this text encouraged the nationalisation of marketing authorisations for gmo products, undermining the european approach and the achievements of the single market, which we need to strengthen.
in writing. ‒ the commission intended to renationalise and speed up the authorisation procedure for gmos imported into europe and intended for human and animal consumption, but the european parliament decided otherwise by voting in favour of the report by mr la via. the european parliament acted in the public interest by rejecting the commission's proposal which would have led to the renationalisation of the authorisation procedure for gmos within the european union and an acceleration of their placing on the market. it is not enough, however, to reject the commission's proposal. the environmentalist group therefore welcomes the support of meps for our amendment to force the commission to table a new proposal despite its opposition.
in writing. ‒ i voted, along with the overwhelming majority of my colleagues, for the motion rejecting the commission's proposal to allow individual member states, under certain conditions, to restrict or prohibit the use on their territory of food or feed containing gmos previously approved at european level. we are opposed to this 'à la carte' legislation for many reasons: the risk of fragmentation of the internal market, the absence of an impact analysis, the impracticability or even the illusory nature of the legislation, the lack of legal rigour, the threat to the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, etc. for all these reasons, we call on the european commission to withdraw its proposal and to submit a new one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the rejection of the european commission's proposal. the commission proposed to give member states greater freedom in the import and marketing of genetically modified food and feed. a few months after the adoption of a common legislation on the cultivation of gmos, it is crucial that the european territory does not become a patchwork of national legislation on the use of gmos. the union must maintain a common policy which leaves no room for a tailor-made approach; the commission proposal suggests that the procedure for authorizing the placing of gmos on the market should be renationalized. in addition to the risk of jeopardising the single market, this backsliding also poses a threat to agricultural competitiveness; i therefore voted against the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has unanimously brought together the political groups against its own proposal for very different reasons: the integrity of the internal market, lack of legal certainty, risk of shortages for livestock feed in the sectors affected by imports, insufficient national room for manoeuvre, etc. the position of the national front members remains the same as for the previous gmo dossier: the so-called freedom of the member states is a deception, the laws of the internal market and the dynamics of integration are still a priority for the commission. i am opposed to this text because the enl amendments tabled were rejected.
in writing. ‒ this report regulates the marketing of novel foods, i.e. foods that did not exist in the european union before 1997 (e.g. insect-based food or nanomaterials). all of these new foods would pose a potential danger to consumers because these nanoparticles are likely to penetrate human cells. there is a need for better regulation, labelling or even outright prohibition. unfortunately, all these precautions have not been taken: neither by the commission, nor by the council, nor by parliament. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure food safety, protect public health and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market in food, while promoting innovation in this sector.
in writing. ‒ this report should define and regulate the placing on the market of novel food products. in this text, the council has removed all the security measures adopted by parliament. as a reminder, novel foods are all foods that did not exist in the european union before 1997. they cover, for example, food based on insects, nanomaterials or other products. it is therefore necessary that such products, as defined in this way, may be placed on the market only in accordance with the precautionary principle, accompanied by a specific labelling, and after their safety in relation to health and the environment has been demonstrated. the main regret i have in this report is that nanomaterials are not simply banned from food. the consumer protection is too weak, and only objections are allowed. i abstained on this vague text because, although the report is intended to be more protective, there is a risk with regard to nanomaterials and a legitimate distrust of the commission and efsa.
in writing. ‒ given the council's withdrawal of all the safety measures adopted by parliament and our concerns about:- possible penetration of cells by nanomaterials - lack of a real study on the health impacts - special risk to pregnant women and babies - lack of legislation on this subject for animal feed it is clear that we are calling for a ban on nanoparticles in food. i cannot therefore support this text and vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the report is to regulate the placing on the market of novel foods, i.e. all food products that did not exist in the european union before 1997, such as insect-based food or nanomaterials. the latter would pose a potential danger to consumers because these nanoparticles could penetrate our cells. this is why we need more regulation, ranging from labelling to prohibition, in accordance with the precautionary principle. the council has not taken all these safety measures at the expense of the europeans who will suffer the harmfulness of these particles. the parliamentary group of which i am a member has called for a simple ban on the use of these foods. this request runs counter to the philosophy of the text, and i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ novel foods are any foodstuffs for which human consumption was negligible within the union before 15 may 1997. it is very important to regulate these new foods which are now being consumed more widely on the european market. the report clarifies the definition of novel foods in order to adapt european legislation to the realities of the current european market. the procedures for authorising the entry of novel foods into the union will be streamlined and simplified, leading to a much more transparent system. this text is intended to improve the single market. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the james nicholson report on novel foods, which has led to very constructive negotiations at first reading between the european parliament and the council. this report responds to the need to revise the european regulation on the authorisation of the placing on the market of novel foods. the regulation dates from 1997 and is somewhat outdated in view of the evolution of food production methods, scientific progress and the opening of markets to products from third countries. the report by james nicholson is a source of positive developments. it provides for the re-evaluation of the definition of novel foods and the delimitation of different categories of foods falling within the scope of novel foods. the report also contains some provisions which will facilitate the entry into the union of traditional foods from third countries. in the final analysis, i believe that this report facilitates innovation while ensuring food safety for consumers.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to speed up the authorisation procedure for 'novel foods', which is considered too complex, costly and time-consuming, and to take better account of recent scientific and technological developments in the food sector. 'new foods' are foods not covered by the current legislation dating from 1997. they may be innovative and produced with new technologies, or they may be products traditionally consumed in third countries outside the european union. the report extends the definition of novel foods to include, among others, food with a modified molecular structure, microorganisms, fungi, algae, food obtained from cell or tissue cultures, and insects. the european parliament has obtained satisfactory assurances from the council on food derived from cloned animals, the precautionary principle, measures to keep nanomaterials under surveillance and restrictions on animal testing, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this regulation simplifies the procedures for marketing authorisations for novel foods, i.e. foods or food ingredients not consumed in the european union before 1997. for example, goji berries, originally from latin america, were not consumed in europe 20 years ago, but are now widely available commercially and highly prized for their energy-giving properties. globalization and technological innovation have helped diversify our diet. the european union must therefore adapt and support innovation in the food sector without calling into question the precautionary principle and the protection of european consumers. the authorization procedure at european level must therefore be properly regulated and the scope of the regulation clarified.
in writing. - i voted for the nicholson report on novel foods. i welcome the adoption of this report because the european regulation on novel foods needed to be revised in order to simplify procedures and above all to adapt to changing markets and new technologies. this report covers a wide range of subjects, covering both new technologies such as nanomaterials and imports from third countries. this report will help to streamline and simplify the authorisation procedure and improve its efficiency and transparency. it will also introduce a safety assessment method that is both faster and better suited to traditional foods from third countries.
in writing. - i abstained on this resolution because it does not highlight the dangers of nanomaterials.
in writing. i voted against the nicholson report on novel foods. this term covers a wide range of products, from traditional products from third countries to foods containing nanomaterials and insects. i am not opposed to eating insects, although my french brain and stomach, though accustomed to snails, are a little reluctant to consume them personally. and yet these exotic products must be controlled with the same rigor as more traditional foods in our latitudes. however, the potential health risks posed by nanomaterials are of concern. they are ignored in the final text, which authorises their use in food products. i am also concerned about the role of the european food safety authority. it has shown in the past that it is not very reliable, for example on gmos. and the european commission does not hesitate to ignore its most cautious advice. i am concerned about the interest the european union is taking in the contents of my plate, but i would prefer it to promote the presence of local products, from farms that would give our farmers a decent living.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 28 october, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods. the concept of novel food generally refers to foodstuffs whose consumption in the european union was negligible before may 1997, i.e. before the entry into force of the present regulation. the european regulation on novel foods needed to be revised in order to simplify procedures and above all to adapt to changing markets and new technologies. i therefore believe that this compromise adopted in plenary is balanced. it will ensure strict control of novel foods and good consumer information, while ensuring that safe and innovative food products are brought to market more quickly within the european union. i therefore welcome the adoption of the european parliament's position and hope that agreement between the council and the european parliament on this text can be reached quickly.
in writing. i have approved the draft text to encourage food innovation through a new simplified authorisation procedure for novel foods. the proposal was intended to replace an old regulation which had become inadequate. the agri-food sector is changing, adapting and improving all the time. a legislative framework is needed to respond to the advances of recent years, for example in nanotechnologies and cell and tissue cultures. a new procedure for the authorisation of novel foods will provide greater legal certainty and reduce the administrative burden for smes. when deciding whether to authorise a novel food, the european commission will have to apply the precautionary principle if the safety of the food cannot be assessed or there is scientific uncertainty. the text states that the european food safety authority (efsa) should carry out an assessment whenever a food is likely to have an impact on human health. the text states that animal testing should be replaced, reduced or improved. in addition, repeated animal testing should be avoided where possible. the european commission would be required to publish a summary of each application.
in writing. ‒ this is a good initiative that the european parliament has just taken. new foods are foods that are consumed in negligible amounts, such as insects, which have become the new culinary trend in recent years. i'm not saying it's harmless. i therefore welcome the balance we have struck between strict control of these products, good consumer information and support for european companies that dare to venture into the production of novel foods.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to regulate the marketing of novel foods, i.e. foods that did not exist in the european union before 1997, such as insect-based foods or nanomaterials. all of these new foods would pose a potential danger to consumers because these nanoparticles are likely to penetrate human cells. there is a need for better regulation, labelling or even outright prohibition. unfortunately, the council has not taken all these precautions. our group has called for a ban on the use of these foods. i voted against this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of my colleague james nicholson's report on novel foods. new legislation was necessary in view of the technological developments in this sector. the definitions of novel foods have been clarified and specified to include the impact of new technologies and simplified procedures to foster innovation and the smooth functioning of the single market. the report strengthens the protection of consumer health by introducing a faster method of food safety assessment and transparency in authorisation procedures. the report has been adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on foodstuffs which were used very little by man before 1997. the aim of this report is to adapt european legislation to these new products in order to guarantee a high level of health protection, while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - i voted against mr nicholson's report on novel foods. the text of the trilogue was unfortunately adopted. the whole thing will therefore be governed by implementing acts which are beyond the control of parliament. products from cloned animals and products with nanomaterials will not be labelled. the consumer is deprived of any information enabling him to make a choice. the principle of the internal market is given priority over consumer safety. authorisation may be granted despite partial information, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it allows the placing on the market of 'new foods' (nanomaterials) without adequate precautions, even though they are suspected of being toxic. the lobbying is once again winning over health care.
in writing. - i voted against it. 'new foods' are all foods that did not exist in the european union before 1997, including, for example, foods made from insects, nanomaterials or other products. as a reminder, nanomaterials are suspected to be toxic. it is because of the risk posed by these nanomaterials that we cannot support this text.
in writing. ‒ a novel food is a food which has not yet been used for human consumption to a significant degree in the union. the text proposes some ways of ensuring consumer safety in these cases. but the account is not there! the responsibility for defining what constitutes a novel food lies with food business operators and only when they are not sure, they consult the member state in which they intend to place the food on the market. the european food safety authority (efsa) may, at the request of the commission, give its opinion on a novel food but only on the basis of the information provided without being able to request further details. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of novel foods by adding new novel foods to the list of novel foods. i vote against it.
in writing. the nicholson report aims to define and regulate the placing on the market of novel food products. in this text, the council has removed all the security measures adopted by parliament. as a reminder, novel foods are any food that did not exist in the european union before 1997. they cover, for example, food based on insects, nanomaterials or other products. it is therefore necessary that such products, as defined in this way, can only be placed on the market in compliance with the precautionary principle, with specific labelling and with proven safety with regard to health and the environment. however, i regret that this text does not propose a ban on nanomaterials in food. this reduces the protection afforded to consumers a priori and encourages the use of a posteriori remedies through objections. i abstained on this vague text because, although the report is intended to be more protective, there is a risk posed by nanomaterials and a legitimate distrust of the commission and efsa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods. the aim is to allow the revision of the rules on foodstuffs for which human consumption was negligible in the union before 1997. the aim of this text is to facilitate innovation and protect consumer food safety by proposing to clarify and specify the definition of novel foods that may contain elements that have an impact on food, such as nanomaterials or cultured tissues and cells. it improves the efficiency of the authorisation procedure for these novel foods by centralising their evaluation at the level of the european food safety authority (efsa). the text also introduces a faster and more appropriate safety assessment method for traditional foods from third countries. finally, generic authorisations will be shared among all actors and not only granted to petitioners, which should benefit smes in particular.
in writing. ‒ the compromise on novel foods is balanced. it will ensure strict control of these and good consumer information, while at the same time providing support for our businesses and the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. i opposed this report which proposes inadequate regulation for consumer protection in relation to novel foods (foods not consumed in europe before 1997). the identification and definition of a novel food is always entrusted to farmers who are not obliged to consult the member state or the european food safety authority (efsa) to establish the presence of a novel food, the latter to be referred to the commission. in view of the dangers posed by the presence of nanomaterials, inter alia, in novel foods, it is important to ensure that their controls are generalised and objective by an independent authority in order to ensure that there are no hidden irregularities that could harm the health of the consumer.
in writing. ‒ the nicholson report aims to define and regulate the placing on the market of novel food products. in this text, the council has removed all the security measures adopted by parliament. as a reminder, novel foods are any food that did not exist in the european union before 1997. they cover, for example, food based on insects, nanomaterials or other products. it is therefore necessary that such products, as defined in this way, can only be placed on the market in accordance with the precautionary principle, with specific labelling and with proven safety with regard to health and the environment. however, i regret that this text does not propose a ban on nanomaterials in food. this reduces the protection afforded to consumers a priori and encourages the use of a posteriori remedies through objections. i abstained on this vague text because, although the report is intended to be more protective, there is a risk posed by nanomaterials and a legitimate distrust of the commission and efsa.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure an ever higher level of food safety and to safeguard the public health of european citizens, the union has proposed to amend and adapt the european regulation on novel foods. the european parliament adopted this text to clarify european legislation in this area. i voted in favour of this text and i stress the importance of updating legislation which affects the daily lives of citizens.
in writing. ‒ parliament adopted a new procedure for the authorisation of novel foods (foods that were not on the market before 1997, in particular those containing nanomaterials or derived from animal cloning) which is not acceptable to environmentalists. parliament has not lived up to the concerns of europeans about novel foods. the commission has also rejected the environmental amendment calling for a moratorium on the presence of nanoparticles in food until an adequate european procedure for health and environmental assessment has been developed. and secondly, by rejecting our amendment to the labelling of foodstuffs produced by cloning, which requires new legislation. we were finally asking for a veto for parliament on the authorization of any new food in the single market. environmentalists cannot therefore support a text which is too far removed from the health concerns of our fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on novel foods (for example, insects, seaweed-based foods and new colours). european legislation had to be updated to take account of technological, scientific and legal developments in this field. we have therefore provided for a harmonised authorisation procedure and safety assessment of these foods within the european union. a novel food can only be accepted on the european market if it does not present any danger and does not mislead the consumer. with this text we ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, we simplify procedures, we encourage innovation while protecting public health, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which facilitates the marketing of novel foods in the european union. novel food is defined as any food for which the consumption by men was negligible within the union before 15 may 1997 (this date corresponds to the entry into force of the regulation currently applicable). it was therefore necessary to review and modernise the existing regulation in order to adapt it to the current market situation and to the new technologies that need to be taken into account, while simplifying procedures. the text adopted is balanced: it guarantees strict control of novel foods, ensures that consumers are given correct information and also supports european businesses by ensuring that they are brought to market more quickly. the new text will ultimately modernise, simplify, rationalise and make the european procedure for authorising the marketing of novel foods more efficient and transparent.
in writing. ‒ the risk posed by nanomaterials, coupled with a legitimate distrust of the commission and efsa, does not allow us to support a text that does not ban nanoparticles. i can't vouch for a major health risk in 10 or 20 years. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes that we integrate methane into national pollutant emission ceilings and air quality legislation. for agriculture, this means the integration of methane resulting from the ingestion of grass by ruminants, especially in traditional and extensive livestock areas, which are very often located in less prosperous areas. i am opposed to this idea because these farms have very little potential to reduce emissions, in particular because there is no effective technical solution to prevent cows from emitting so-called enteric methane. it's hard to go against nature. the inclusion of this methane in the directive's obligations would lead to a reduction in herds and even to the abandonment of herbaceous farming systems. this would be tantamount to encouraging intensive farming models that are less favourable to the environment and to fragile territories. i am glad that our assembly has taken account of the realities of agriculture without neglecting the issues of public health and the environment. it will help to alleviate many of the concerns in the livestock sector, which is currently in crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission's proposal. the directive it wants to introduce includes methane and ammonia among the pollutants that need to be regulated. the commission proposes to this end the introduction of thresholds until 2030. these regulations may be very restrictive for french farmers and livestock farmers.
in writing. ‒ with just a few weeks to go until the cop21 in paris, the european parliament is voicing its commitment to curbing the damage to the ozone layer. i share this vital objective for the planet, but i felt it necessary to oppose the measure to introduce emission ceilings for methane, especially the so-called "enteric" one which is produced by cattle. in a difficult economic context, this new standard would have been detrimental to cattle farmers and in particular to milk producers who have opted for extensive farming. i trust the farmers who have already implemented new practices that meet the requirements of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the cap is being 'greened'. the 'double penalty' of new standards should be avoided. i therefore supported and voted for an amendment to exclude enteric methane emissions from this directive. i welcome its adoption and hope that this decision will be supported by the european council in the next negotiations. in a globalised world, we must be aware that air knows no frontiers and that the issuing of standards in europe must not lead to producers moving abroad.
in writing. ‒ this commission directive proposed to the european parliament continues the work of the 2001 pen directive on emission ceilings for certain air pollutants for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvocs) until 2020. the new directive proposes new thresholds until 2030 by adding methane (a polluting gas largely from agricultural and livestock activities) and fine particulate matter. the rapporteur proposed a more binding deadline of 2025 but refused to include methane (cf. agriculture). the fn elected members of the commission supported the position against the inclusion of methane and against the mention of ammonia in order to limit the regulatory burden on agriculture and certain industries. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur rejected the inclusion of methane, which had been supported by fn members in committee in order to limit the regulatory burden on agriculture and certain industries. the directive adds methane, and i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants is part of the legislative package on air quality proposed by the commission. the text proposes the setting of very ambitious targets for the reduction of certain polluting gases. it is very important to increase the quality of air as pollution is responsible for many deaths every year. however, we must try to remain realistic and set binding targets which do not jeopardise the economic competitiveness of the european union. the example of the methane reduction target is particularly telling. the main source of methane emissions is the agricultural sector, as ruminants are the main emitters. the agricultural sector is currently experiencing particularly difficult times. to impose this measure on our farmers would only make their situation worse. i therefore voted in favour of this text on the condition that the emission of enterich methane be excluded from the scope of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report revises national emission ceilings for certain pollutants to improve air quality and human health. the text introduces new limit values (such as sulphur dioxide, ultrafine particles or methane) from 2020 and 2030. it also proposes a binding 2025 interim target for all pollutants except ammonia. other measures include access to finance for air quality improvements and emission control programmes. there was much opposition, both on the level of ambition of the reduction targets for 2020, 2025 and 2030, and on the addition of new pollutants. since we do not currently have an effective technical or technological means of reducing the emissions of enteric methane (waste from livestock), i co-signed an amendment, the content of which was taken up by the plenary, to exclude these emissions from the directive, so as not to penalise the agricultural sector. i regret, however, that my amendments to protect small farms and to exclude ammonia were not adopted. i have nevertheless voted in favour of opening negotiations between the european parliament and the council, in support of the main objectives of this report.
in writing. ‒ the 2001 european nec directive sets national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants: sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds (vocs) and ammonia (nh3). in a new revised proposal, the commission introduces two new pollutants, fine particulate matter (pm2.5) and methane (ch4), and sets new, more stringent national ceilings for the other four pollutants. air pollution kills 400 000 european citizens every year, so the eu needs to set stricter emission ceilings and binding targets for 2025 for all the pollutants it targets. it is wise to make an exception for the so-called enteric methane, i.e. from livestock production produced by the belching and farts of cows. the european ecological revolution we are calling for is synonymous with the preservation of a sustainable agricultural model which respects animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the girling report, or nec directive, which aims to set member states' emission ceilings for the main pollutants. i have, however, campaigned for the exclusion of enteric methane from the scope of the directive. the reduction of methane emissions is certainly an important public health issue, but we must be pragmatic. that is why we have fought throughout the discussions in committees to reject the inclusion of enteric methane in the calculation of national emission ceilings. this inclusion could have undermined the competitiveness of our agriculture at a time when the european livestock sector is going through an unprecedented crisis. we cannot make a case for animal welfare in the agricultural sector on the one hand and impose unreasonable constraints on our farmers on the other. this directive is therefore a crucial legislative instrument for monitoring compliance with air quality objectives at european level. but if we want effective legislation, it must first be realistic!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which sets new virtuous thresholds in the policy of reducing emissions of several air pollutants. however, i have made a reservation concerning the enteral methane (which results from the ingestion of grass by ruminants) by means of a specific amendment. the inclusion of this methane in national emission ceilings is problematic because it would in fact lead to a reduction in livestock numbers or even a conversion to intensive livestock farming consuming more flour with multiple consequences. the environment, with the abandonment of permanent grasslands. the employment and vitality of traditional and extensive livestock areas where incomes are lowest and where the renewal of generations is no longer assured. our food autonomy, finally, which could be reduced. the greenhouse effect must be combated without sacrificing traditional agriculture, which also captures a number of gases from its soil (which are very useful carbon sinks, particularly in the fight against global warming). i am aware of this and i would also like to help to allay the legitimate concerns of many farmers who are already suffering from a deep crisis and a severe drought this year.
in writing. ‒ the girling report on the emission of certain air pollutants seems to be moving in a more encouraging direction. it has been amended several times in the right direction, notably by excluding methane from the text. so our agriculture will not suffer unduly from this regulation, as it is the largest emitter of methane. i am satisfied with the text as amended, which protects our rural economy, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ air pollution is responsible for 400 000 premature deaths a year in the european union! on the eve of the cop21 in paris in december, parliament has just adopted an ambitious report to reduce emissions of air pollutants in the european union. i welcome the adoption of this ambitious but also balanced and realistic draft directive, which takes account of the specific situation of the agricultural and livestock sector by excluding enteric methane emissions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a key legislative instrument for air pollution control at european level. the purpose of this text is to set member states' emission ceilings for the main pollutants. it is also an important public health instrument, as it is estimated that poor air quality causes more than 48 000 premature deaths in france. but if we want effective legislation, it must first be realistic! i therefore welcome the exclusion of methane from the scope of the directive. its inclusion could have undermined the competitiveness of our agriculture at a time when the european livestock sector is going through an unprecedented crisis.
in writing. i supported the report on reducing air pollutant emissions, adopted by the plenary on 28 october. several political groups, including the socialists and democrats, have agreed to include higher targets for reducing pollutants. these include nitrogen oxide, particulate matter and sulphur dioxide, ammonia and methane, with the exception of enteric methane emitted by ruminants. i voted in favour of this text because air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths in the eu every year, and it is very costly for our planet and our societies. for example, it is estimated that up to €40 billion could be saved by 2030 as a result of this text. with cop21 approaching and meps about to start negotiations with the council to reach an agreement on air pollutants, it is high time to act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague julie girling on national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants. this instrument is important in combating the worsening air pollution experienced by large agglomerations. this will prevent thousands of deaths (almost 48,000 in france). however, in the interests of realism and not to stifle the agricultural sector, which is already suffering greatly from the russian embargo, enteric methane has been excluded from the scope of this directive. the report has been adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to strengthen air pollution control at european level by setting ceilings for the main pollutants. i have, however, rejected the inclusion of certain products in the list of controlled pollutants which would have led to a loss of competitiveness in our agriculture, which is already badly affected.
in writing. ‒ the national front delegation maintains its position against the inclusion of methane and the mention of ammonia in the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants, in order to limit the regulatory burden on agriculture and certain industries. i was therefore prepared to vote for the legislative resolution, as mr andrieu's oral amendment proposing an exception for enteric methane emitted by ruminant farms was adopted. the text was, however, referred back to committee. the national front delegation will remain vigilant.
in writing. ‒ the legislative proposal aims to revise the 2001 directive on national emission ceilings (nces). the report sets national ceilings to be reached by 2030 for six pollutants (sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds, fine particulate matter (pm2.5) and mercury). binding mid-term objectives have also been set. to achieve these objectives, the report stresses the need to reduce emissions from road transport. some attention is also paid to pollution from agriculture. i am voting for this text.
in writing. this girling report on emissions of certain air pollutants concerns the directive which continues the work of the 2001 pen directive on emission ceilings for certain air pollutants including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvocs) until 2020. the new directive proposes new thresholds until 2030 by adding methane (a polluting gas largely from agricultural and livestock activities) and fine particulate matter. the rapporteur proposed a more binding deadline of 2025 but refused to include methane (cf. agriculture). the fn elected members of the commission supported the position against the inclusion of methane and against the mention of ammonia in order to limit the regulatory burden on agriculture and certain industries. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the nec directive, which is a crucial legislative instrument for monitoring compliance with air quality objectives at european level. ambitious standards are needed to combat air pollution, which is believed to be responsible for many premature deaths. however, to be effective, legislation in this area must be realistic and take account of the economic role played by enterprises. i am therefore in favour of the objective of setting national ceilings for environmental protection and air quality, but i have opposed the inclusion of enteric methane (gas from fermentation in the ruminants' bellies) in the calculation of these ceilings. this measure would have represented an unreasonable constraint for european farmers whose animals are reared in the open air.
in writing. ‒ we need ambitious standards to combat air pollution. this directive is therefore a crucial legislative instrument for monitoring compliance with air quality objectives at european level. but if we want effective legislation, it must first of all be realistic and take account of the negative impact that too restrictive standards could have on industry and agriculture and, ultimately, on employment.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the directive will redefine the objectives for reducing air pollutants which are very dangerous to human health. the air quality in europe will be greatly improved after the adoption of this trilogue text. the european parliament's position is firm and balanced and will allow for a good negotiation with the council, which is why i support it.
in writing. ‒ this girling report on emissions of certain air pollutants concerns the directive which continues the work of the 2001 pen directive on emission ceilings for certain air pollutants including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvocs) until 2020. the new directive proposes new thresholds until 2030 by adding methane (a polluting gas largely from agricultural activities and livestock) and fine particulate matter. the rapporteur proposed a more binding deadline of 2025 but refused to include methane (cf. agriculture). the fn elected members of the commission supported the position against the inclusion of methane and against the mention of ammonia in order to limit the regulatory burden on agriculture and certain industries. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in order to combat climate change effectively and to encourage a gradual reduction in emissions of air pollutants, the commission has put in place the 'national emission ceilings' (nec) directive. the aim of this instrument is to regulate emissions of pollutants into the air by setting emission ceilings for member states for the main pollutants. in this context, the commission has proposed to adapt the current eia directive and to set new ceilings. the european parliament adopted the commission's proposal but has not yet agreed on the envi committee's proposal. the vote was postponed because the envi resolution set ceilings that were far too ambitious or even unrealistic. i support this position and encourage a realistic text adapted to the environmental, social and economic needs of our states.
in writing. ‒ air pollution from human activities, ranging from industry to agriculture, is estimated to kill 400 000 european citizens every year. this is ten times the number of road deaths. it is therefore essential to tackle the problems of polluting emissions through a global and european solution, since pollution knows no borders. on wednesday, i voted in favour of the report on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants, which sets a ceiling for emissions by 2030. this includes emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and fine particulate matter. however, the european parliament has decided, and i welcome this, not to introduce an emission ceiling for enteric methane, thus avoiding a double penalty for cattle farmers. by reducing the emission ceilings, this legislation could improve the living conditions of european citizens and reduce the number of deaths linked to poor air quality. it is also a signal to our partners as cop21 approaches.
in writing. ‒ parliament has made a clear statement to strengthen the european commission's proposal for new rules for 2020 to 2030 on emissions of certain pollutants that are harmful to health. a few weeks before cop 21, parliament has sent a strong signal to reduce emissions of harmful pollutants. today's vote reinforces the european commission's proposal, which concerns in particular sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, fine particulate matter and ammonia, which seriously affect the respiratory system. environmentalists, however, regret that on mercury - a potent neurotoxicant and a source of neurological impairment - parliament followed the commission in excluding it from regulation. the commission proposal had the objective of reducing emissions of these pollutants from 2020 to 2030 and parliament added binding targets from 2025. air pollution is responsible for nearly 480 000 premature deaths on the european continent, the time for procrastination is now over.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution setting new, more ambitious national emission ceilings for the main air pollutants harmful to human health and the environment: nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia, methane and particulate matter. air pollution is responsible for about 400 000 premature deaths each year in the european union and causes between 300 and 900 billion euro in health-related costs per year. it is therefore urgent to address these serious air quality problems that persist in the union. the reductions set shall apply from 2020 and 2030, with intermediate emission levels for the year 2025. we have decided to keep methane and ammonia in the directive, two pollutants which are mainly from agriculture, while excluding the enteric methane emissions naturally produced by ruminants. negotiations with the council will now be able to begin with a view to reaching an agreement at first reading.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which sets new national ceilings for certain pollutants and will allow the level of air pollution in the european union to be monitored. we must find solutions to the serious problem of air pollution, which causes more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union every year, including more than 48 000 in france! in voting on this report we are pursuing the objective of improving air quality and i would like to point out that we have supported realistic objectives, in particular by calling for the exclusion of methane from the scope of the directive; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis.
in writing. i supported this report which sets new national ceilings for certain pollutants and will allow air pollution levels to be monitored in the european union. we must find solutions to the serious problem of air pollution, which causes more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union every year, including more than 48 000 in france! in voting on this report we are pursuing the objective of improving air quality and i would like to point out that we have supported realistic objectives, in particular by calling for the exclusion of methane from the scope of the directive; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis.
in writing. ‒ poor air quality is responsible for over 400 000 deaths each year and costs our health systems between 300 and 900 million euros. 90% of europe's city dwellers are exposed to pollution levels that pose a health risk. it was therefore necessary for us to legislate to reduce these risks and to limit polluting emissions. the report presented by mrs girling is ambitious, aiming to limit emissions of the main pollutants, particularly in the transport, industry, energy, residential heating, services and agriculture sectors. this revision of the directive on emission ceilings includes methane and ammonia, which is a substantial improvement for air quality. although i welcome the ambition of the text, i have chosen to vote for the amendment which excludes enteric methane, that is to say cow farts. the farmers who are already in great difficulty cannot be penalized for an unavoidable natural phenomenon, while they are making our territories live and preserving the grasslands, which are also essential for the quality of the air.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) report has some good ideas. the aim is to reform the eic process, which allows citizens of the member states to bring a matter of concern to the commission and to have their voices heard. since the system has been in place, only three petitions have been successful out of the 51 that have been launched. among the three that were considered acceptable was the "one of us" initiative, which called for an end to all eu funding for "research activities that destroy human embryos". the commission, which has a veto right over the admissibility of these initiatives, finally rejected the initiative in may 2014. the ice had collected over 1.7 million signatures! the commission is thus both judge and party and is entitled to give political opinions whereas its role should be limited to a purely technical and formal opinion. i therefore voted in favour of this text, considering it useful to reform the eci.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation which aims to remove obstacles which are problematic for the organisers and promoters of an eci, such as legal protection for the misuse of personal data for which they are now personally responsible.
in writing. ‒ the report mentions the fact that the european citizens' initiative, while it could be a good thing, has had little success. of the 31 initiatives launched, only 3 were successful and had no consequences. the process is considered too complicated and the european commission is both judge and party to this arbitrary process. in addition, the deadline for collecting signatures is set by the commission's timetable. the report calls for a serious reform to ensure the transparency and security of personal data, and meps want to be more involved in the process. this report is a step in the right direction towards a more democratic process and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for a serious reform of the european citizens' initiative, a mechanism which has achieved little because of an overly complicated process and the role of the european commission, which is both judge and party. i therefore voted for this report, which is in favour of a more democratic process.
in writing. ‒ this report attempts to address the many shortcomings of the european citizens' initiative process. as a reminder, out of 31 citizen initiatives, only three were successful, but none had a real legal impact. the rapporteur stresses the complexity of the procedures to be followed. it also rightly criticises the commission's role in the process. it is the responsibility of the judge and the party to determine whether the applications are admissible. the deadline for the organisers to collect signatures is also set by the commission. i generally agree with the rapporteur, who calls into question the current functioning of the european citizens' initiative process, especially since his proposals ensure that the procedure is transparent and that the personal data of signatories are secure. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative was established in 2009 with the treaty of lisbon with the aim of enabling european citizens, using digital criteria, to ask the commission to legislate on a certain subject. this measure responds to a need for democratic legitimacy in the european union. we must involve citizens in the european project. too often, they feel excluded from the european institutions, which have a considerable impact on their daily lives. we must get closer to the citizens if we do not want populist movements that promote withdrawal from society to gain ground. i am in favour of more europe but with more citizen participation. the citizens' initiative is a very good measure. however, its application has some shortcomings. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the european citizens' initiative so that it can really live up to its ambitions. in the long term, a citizens' initiative will have to be the subject of real european legislation to prove its effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ this report assesses the implementation of european legislation on the european citizens' initiative. the european citizens' initiative is a participatory democracy tool of the european union, enabling one million european citizens residing in at least one quarter of the member states of the union to invite the commission to submit a proposal for a legislative act that they consider necessary and within the limits of the competences of the european union. since the entry into force of the legislation in 2011 which sets out the procedures and conditions applicable, many complaints have been made by citizens. in order to facilitate the use of this instrument, the european parliament calls for simplification of the rules for collecting signatures and for assistance to be offered to citizens who raise a matter outside the competence of the citizens' initiative. parliament also called on the european commission to submit a legislative proposal within 12 months. i believe that this report aims to strengthen the link between citizens and the institutions of the union, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci), which was launched three years ago, allows european citizens to raise major european issues and to ask the european commission to legislate. to be eligible, the initiative must be supported by at least one million europeans from at least one quarter of the member states, or seven different countries. it was useful to make an initial assessment of the way the initiative was working and to suggest a number of ways in which it could be improved. so far, out of 51 applications for registration of an initiative, only three have been considered admissible ("water, a human right", "one of us" and "stop vivisection"). european citizens should be able to propose initiatives more easily on all subjects covered by the eu treaties. the european commission should therefore improve the multilingual website dedicated to ecis and provide a single window, in all the official languages of the union, on the rights and obligations of eci organisers and on the administrative procedures applicable in the context of the eci procedure.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) is the first participatory democracy tool that gives eu citizens the right, if they gather at least one million signatures representing at least a quarter of the eu's member states, to invite the commission to submit a legislative proposal on a subject of their choice. this is a major step forward for the political rights of citizens and i welcome it. that is why i voted for the schöpflin report on the european citizens' initiative. through this vote we are increasing communication around the eci, we are strengthening the transmission and collection of information to the organisers.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned the citizens' initiative process, in this case on the protection of personal data. the report recommends greater seriousness in the area of personal data protection, while calling for greater involvement of meps in citizens' initiatives, and this is a step in the right direction. it is essential to allow citizens' initiatives to have a real impact on the legislative decisions of the european union. i am committed to freedom of expression and to its practical influence, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the schöpflin report has finally convinced me that the european citizens' initiative (eci) is a pure demagogic communication operation. lice is not only suffering from organisational problems. it has a design flaw, as we had already denounced in the campaign on the european constitution, which became the lisbon treaty. it only allows the commission to be asked to act, not to do nothing. for example, one cannot validly petition the commission to stop the accession negotiations with turkey or the negotiations on the transatlantic treaty, nor to ask it to end the liberalisation of public services, still less in the public service. it does not give the commission any obligation to follow up, or even to justify the fate it reserves for these initiatives. and what a spell! of 51 applications for registration of ice, only three were considered admissible. one third of the refusals are appealed by the organisers to the court of justice. the three survivors will not receive any follow-up worthy of the name. last month, the boyle report expressed concern at the commission's disregard for this area. normal: the ice is not intended to be operational. she's nothing but a powder to the eye.
in writing. the european citizens' initiative allows one million citizens from at least seven member states to ask the european commission to act on a particular issue. it is a democratic tool giving citizens the opportunity to influence european strategy on concrete issues. it thus introduces a new form of citizen action and emulation in europe. however, although the eci is an innovative instrument, it faces many limitations which mr schöpflin's report aimed to correct in order to exploit its full potential. the evidence is that the eci has never been transposed into legislation. parliament adopted a resolution in early september urging the commission to respond to the first eci's requests concerning the right to quality water. i therefore supported this report which aims to improve the functioning of the ecis and thus encourage them. the commission must respond to citizens' demands in a more flexible and transparent way. finally, i hope that this text will also help to combat the idea that europe is too far away from its citizens, even when it offers them the tools to get involved.
in writing. ‒ the report on the european citizens' initiative (eci) aims to reform its procedure. since its establishment, the eic has enabled citizens of the member states to approach the commission on a matter of concern to them and to make their views known. to date, only three of the 51 petitions have been successful. among the three that were considered acceptable was the "one of us" initiative, which called for an end to all eu funding for "research activities that destroy human embryos". the commission, which has a veto right over the admissibility of these initiatives, finally rejected the initiative in may 2014. the ice had collected over 1.7 million signatures! the commission is thus both judge and party and is entitled to give political opinions whereas its role should be limited to a purely technical and formal opinion. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague gyorgy schopflin on the european citizens' initiative (eci). this initiative, introduced by the lisbon treaty, allows citizens to bring matters of concern to the european legislator and to get the european commission to take a decision on the matter, provided it falls within its competence. the first ecis have now come to an end and this report aims to draw lessons from these early experiences by assessing practice and proposing solutions to the difficulties encountered in implementing the system. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the european initiative report aims to improve this participatory democracy tool which has engaged more than six million citizens since 2012. unfortunately, the european initiative is a complex tool, hampered by many practical difficulties. some improvements were therefore necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the european citizens' initiative because it highlights the many flaws in the current process for organising such an initiative. of the 31 initiatives launched, only 3 have been successful. none of them had any real consequences. the process is far too complicated. the commission is both judge and party. the deadline for collecting signatures is set by the commission's calendar. as mr schöpflin's report suggests, serious reform is therefore needed, ensuring transparency and the security of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it highlights the shortcomings of the european citizens' initiative (i.e. petition) process, of which none of the 31 has led to a concrete result. it confirms to me that 'european democracy' is a deception. democracy can only exist within the framework of a nation, and there is no such thing as a 'european nation' in the singular.
in writing. - i voted for this report! it highlights that the citizens' initiative process is too complicated and inefficient, with no legal impact. the european commission, both judge and party, allows itself to accept or not, in a somewhat arbitrary way, the admissibility of initiatives! the report proposes a major reform to ensure greater transparency and efficiency.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is a farce! following the mobilisation of citizens, through a complex administrative process, it is expected to lead the commission to review its legislation on the basis of the request submitted. of the 51 petitions, only three were deemed admissible but none were subject to legislative change. the report proposes many simplifications but does not oblige the commission to accept more initiatives and act accordingly. it also proposes that the commission should be able to take initiatives before the competent national authorities. it doesn't meet the needs. the tafta initiative, which had gathered over three million signatures, was rejected by the commission as being outside its remit. the commission is the only one who has the power to negotiate trade! but who is competent in matters that matter? i am voting against this text which only validates the absence of citizenship in the life of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative (eci) report has some good ideas. the aim of this is to reform the ice process. since the introduction of this system, which allows citizens of the member states to approach the commission on a matter of concern to them and to make their views known, only three petitions have been successful out of the 51 that have been launched. among the three that were considered acceptable was the "one of us" initiative, which called for an end to all eu funding for "research activities that destroy human embryos". the commission, which has a veto right over the admissibility of these initiatives, finally rejected the initiative in may 2014. the ice had collected over 1.7 million signatures! the commission is thus both judge and party and is entitled to give political opinions whereas its role should be limited to a purely technical and formal opinion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. this schöpflin report criticises the effectiveness of the european citizens' initiative as it has had little success. of the 31 initiatives launched, only 3 were successful and had no consequences. the process is considered too complicated and the european commission is both judge and party to this arbitrary process. in addition, the deadline for collecting signatures is set by the commission's timetable. the report calls for a serious reform to ensure the transparency and security of personal data and meps want to be more involved in the process. this report is a step in the right direction towards a more democratic process and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the european citizens' initiative (eci). lice is an important tool of participatory democracy in the european union, enabling one million european citizens residing in at least one quarter of the union's member states to invite the commission to submit a proposal for a legislative act that they consider necessary to implement the union's treaties. due to numerous complaints from citizens, the european commission has committed itself to initiating a review of the eci regulation. this report shall assess the implementation of this regulation and make proposals to improve its functioning. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. the commission will be required to review the european citizens' initiative legislation in 2016. the report proposes measures to improve this system by simplifying procedures and setting up national relays with competence in this field. but the real problem is that this initiative, which remains the main democratic tool for influencing the commission's action, is systematically opposed by the institution. of the 51 eci applications, only 3 were accepted and none has yet been transposed into law. the report calls for the commission to be more transparent in its positive or negative treatment of these initiatives and calls for better information for european citizens, which i welcome. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. that's why i'm not going.
in writing. ‒ this schöpflin report criticises the effectiveness of the european citizens' initiative, as it has had little success. of the 31 initiatives launched, only 3 were successful and had no consequences. the process is considered too complicated and the european commission is both judge and party to this arbitrary process. in addition, the deadline for collecting signatures is set by the commission's timetable. the report calls for a serious reform to ensure the transparency and security of personal data, and meps want to be more involved in the process. this report is a step in the right direction towards a more democratic process and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative, set up by the lisbon treaty, gives european citizens the power to directly invite the european commission to act on a specific issue. this procedure is still new and needs to be improved. in this context, the european parliament adopted a text proposing certain improvements to the operation of this procedure. i voted for this text and i encourage the use of this instrument by european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the lisbon treaty, by introducing the european citizens' initiative, sought to bring europe closer to citizens by allowing them to have a say in political decisions. six years later, the conclusion is clear: the failure is total. in six years, only three ecis reached one million signatures without resulting in a legislative proposal. as the public no longer sees any use for this tool, they turn away from it and the number of ices deposited decreases. for this reason, the greens/efa group had proposed that the commission should be systematically required, after each eci had collected 1 million signatures, to prepare a legislative act. but the grand coalition, decidedly reluctant to make democracy a reality, opposed this proposal to maintain the status quo: the commission will do what it wants. a majority of meps even opposed the idea that parliament - and therefore meps themselves - should automatically monitor ecis. at a time when the european project is in dire need of a new link with the citizens, it is regrettable that the majority of meps have decided to ignore the citizens' demands.
in writing. ‒ the european citizens' initiative is a useful instrument of participatory democracy for the union. it entered into force in april 2012 and allows one million citizens from at least seven eu countries to invite the commission to submit a legislative proposal in an area in which the eu has the power to legislate. yet, when examined, his methods remain imperfect. of the 51 applications submitted, only three were considered admissible: "water, a human right", "one of us" and "stop vivisection". in addition, there are six cases before the court of justice of the european union concerning refusals to take account. this is all evidence that this instrument needs improvement. i therefore supported this resolution, which contains a number of proposals for improvement, both in terms of accessibility, awareness and information, and in terms of transparency, support and acceptability of the various initiatives. the european citizens' initiative offers a great opportunity to unite citizens in the unique project of the european union. the european parliament, the symbol of european democracy, has a duty to ensure that this instrument is used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which takes stock of the implementation of the european citizens' initiative (eci), a tool for citizens to actively participate in the development of european policies and legislation. the ece has helped to develop participatory democracy within the european union and to involve european citizens more closely. it allows one million european citizens residing in at least one quarter of the member states of the union to ask the european commission to submit a legislative act (directive or regulation) when they consider that such an act is necessary for the application of the treaties. since the entry into force of the eci implementing regulation, 51 applications for registration of an initiative have been submitted and more than 6 million eu citizens have taken part in an eci. however, the ice has some shortcomings that have been repeatedly complained about by citizens and improvements need to be made, including increasing public awareness, providing more information to citizens and improving access to an ice. an evaluation report will be presented by the commission next spring.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which sets out the european parliament's position on the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair). the text provides for measures which involve a strengthening of the regionalisation of the member states while weakening the power of national governments. it also promotes the enlargement of the european union, repeatedly stressing the integration dimension of the eusair strategy. i am opposed to any loss of national sovereignty and to any further enlargement of the union, and i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea covers eight countries, four of which are members of the european union - croatia, greece, italy and slovenia - and four non-members - albania, montenegro, serbia and bosnia and herzegovina. this report once again illustrates the eu's desire to create cross-border macro-regions in a way that bypasses the sovereignty of the member states. the aim is to weaken central powers in favour of local authorities, which are more malleable to the european institutions. the member states concerned could indeed deal with these issues in a multilateral manner. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ this report on an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region presented by the commission consists of a macro-regional strategy covering eight member states (including croatia, greece, italy and slovenia). the other third countries are either candidates or potential candidates for eu membership. unfortunately, this strategy directly targets local and regional authorities, bypassing the states. moreover, it manifests a hegemonic dimension of the eu which creates a specific policy for a few states when the problem should be dealt with bilaterally. finally, the text calls for the enlargement of the eu and i have therefore naturally decided to vote against this text which kills nations.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to give the european parliament's opinion on the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) which covers eight countries. by making local authorities the target of european policy, the report reinforces the regionalisation of the member states and weakens the power of national governments. the report also promotes the enlargement of the european union. the text stresses that this strategy must help the applicant countries on their way to eu membership. we are firmly opposed to any loss of national sovereignty, any strengthening of the power of local authorities and any enlargement of the european union. we therefore strongly disagree with the philosophy of the text, which is detoured from the initial objective of cohesion policy, namely to reduce regional disparities. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes the european parliament's support for the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair). it stresses the added value of this strategy, while recalling the importance of the 'three no' principle (no new legislation, no new institution, no new funding) and draws attention to the added value of the multi-level governance model. the report also identifies several development priorities, namely blue growth, strengthening the region's interconnection, environmental quality, and sustainable and competitive tourism. the establishment of a macro-regional strategy is an interesting approach that should be supported. there is a need to ensure effective governance and targeted priorities. the next macro-regional strategy to be implemented will concern the alpine region. i fully support this initiative and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was to take stock of the union's strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea region (eusair). it contained two main lines in relation to the strategy proposed by the european union. by encouraging interaction with local authorities in the countries concerned (both eu and non-eu), it bypasses national governments and their sovereignty and gives too much power to local authorities. this is part of the so-called macro-regional logic which tends to go beyond the member states to apply european policies to vague geographical areas. by promoting the integration of third countries, which are involved and explicitly mentioned in this strategy, the european union is going against the statements of the european commission, which has repeatedly promised its opposition to further enlargements of the union. i am firmly opposed to the loss of national sovereignty of the member states and to the enlargement of the european union, and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it includes plans to abandon national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea covers eight countries, including four eu members (croatia, greece, italy, slovenia) and four non-members (albania, montenegro, serbia, bosnia and herzegovina). this report is a perfect illustration of the european union's desire to create crossborder macro-regions in a way that bypasses the sovereignty of the member states. the aim is to weaken central powers in favour of local authorities, which are more malleable to the european institutions. the member states concerned could indeed deal with these issues in a multilateral manner. moreover, it is clear that this type of strategy also foreshadows future enlargements of the union. the report states in several paragraphs that it is part of an integration dimension of the candidate and potential candidate countries. any further enlargement would only strengthen the power of the european institutions to the detriment of the european states and peoples. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ivan jakovčić on the european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea region. the report highlights the added value of the strategy, while recalling the importance of the 'three no' principle (no new legislation, no new institution, no new funding), since macro-regions are frameworks that must build on the synergies created by existing policies and funds. the report appropriately identifies several development priorities for the four pillars of the strategy, namely blue growth, interconnections, environment and tourism. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the commission's communication on the new eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea, with the priorities of blue growth, the environment and sustainable and competitive tourism in this area.
in writing. ‒ this jakovcic report concerns the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) presented by the commission in june 2014. it is a macro-regional strategy covering eight member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia). the other third countries are either candidates or potential candidates for eu membership. the problem with this strategy is that it targets local and regional authorities directly, bypassing the states. it also reflects a hegemonic dimension of the eu which creates a specific policy for a few states when the problem should be dealt with bilaterally. finally, the text promotes eu enlargement. i have therefore decided to vote against this text, which is another blow to the sovereignty of states.
in writing. - i voted against it. this report gives the european parliament's opinion on the union's strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea region. this region covers eight countries, half of which are eu members (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia), three have the status of 'candidate countries' (albania, montenegro and serbia) and one has the status of 'potential candidate country' (bosnia and herzegovina). we opposed this report for two reasons: firstly, because it promotes enlargement of the union, which we are formally opposed to. secondly, because it deals with the union's macro-regional strategy and interferes with matters which concern only a small group of eu countries: a european approach is therefore unnecessary, simple bilateral agreements would suffice.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the commission proposed a third eu strategy for a macro-region: the adriatic and ionian region (eusair). the proposal builds on existing cooperation in the region, mainly the adriatic-ionian initiative which started in 2000 with the signing of the declaration of ancona and the adriatic-ionian euroregion created in 2006. eusair covers 8 countries: 4 eu member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia) and 4 non-member countries (albania, montenegro, serbia and bosnia and herzegovina) which are also members of the eu. the report describes the characteristics of the macro-region, the challenges and opportunities it faces, and calls for specific actions on blue growth, connecting regions, environmental quality, sustainable and competitive tourism. but he advocates implementation through public-private partnerships. the artificial division of such 'macro-regions' in europe also poses a democratic problem. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. this jakovcic report concerns the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) presented by the commission in june 2014. it is a macro-regional strategy covering eight member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia). the other third countries have the status of either candidate or potential candidate countries for accession to the union. the problem with this strategy is that it targets local and regional authorities directly, bypassing the states. it also reflects a hegemonic dimension of the union, which creates a specific policy for a few states when the problem should be dealt with bilaterally. finally, the text promotes the enlargement of the union. i have therefore decided to vote against this text, which is another blow to the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. the text recalls that the existing macro-regional strategy for the eight countries bordering the baltic sea has produced good results and enabled denmark, germany, estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, finland and sweden to respond to several common challenges in the area (creating a sustainable environment, enhancing prosperity, improving accessibility and attractiveness and ensuring security). it stressed the success of these framework structures, which make it possible to improve the articulation of the various union policies without recourse to new legislation, institutions or additional funding. this report identifies blue growth, regional interconnection, environmental quality and sustainable tourism as development priorities for the adriatic and ionian region.
in writing. ‒ this jakovcic report concerns the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region (eusair) presented by the commission in june 2014. it is a macro-regional strategy covering eight member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia). the other third countries are either candidates or potential candidates for eu membership. the problem with this strategy is that it targets local and regional authorities directly, bypassing the states. it also reflects a hegemonic dimension of the eu which creates a specific policy for a few states when the problem should be dealt with bilaterally. finally, the text promotes eu enlargement. i have therefore decided to vote against this text, which is another blow to the sovereignty of states.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a text on the establishment of an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. it is important to promote regional cooperation within the union and to foster synergies, in particular in the fields of blue growth, transport, environment and tourism. i voted in favour of this resolution. the text aims to promote existing cooperation frameworks and encourages the macro-regions to frame and develop this strategy.
in writing. ‒ the new eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region was presented by the european commission on 17 june 2014 and follows the request of the european council in december 2012 to present a new strategy by the end of 2014. i voted in favour of this report, which recalls that the macro-regions are frameworks for cooperation initiatives based on synergies arising from the articulation of the various union policies. in this sense, the principle of the three 'no's' must be respected, namely no new legislation, no new institution and no new financing. in parallel, the report identifies several development priorities for the four pillars of the strategy: blue growth, regional interconnection, environmental quality and sustainable and competitive tourism.
in writing. - the report raises two main problems: - it deals with the european union's macro-regional strategy. by making local authorities the target of european policy, the report reinforces the regionalisation of the member states and weakens the power of national governments. moreover, it is not useful to create a european policy if it concerns only a small number of states. these issues should therefore be dealt with bilaterally. this text reveals the hegemonic attitude of the union and the commission, which no longer treat the member states as sovereign countries but as provinces, dependent on the direction of european policy. - he is promoting the enlargement of the european union. the commission has repeatedly stated that there will be no further enlargement in the near future. however, he does not mind emphasising in several paragraphs an integration dimension of the eusair strategy. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which considers that the europe 2020 strategy and cohesion policy would contribute to economic development through job creation or increased investment. this text does not add any value to the debate on the review of the europe 2020 strategy and the intention of the european institutions to weaken the member states by strengthening the power of local authorities is clearly underlined here.
in writing. ‒ this text praises the europe 2020 strategy which would contribute to economic development and job creation in europe, without ever addressing the shortcomings of this strategy. the report does not only show results that are far below expectations, but also shows a desire to reduce the role of the state in favour of local authorities. i also note that none of the amendments tabled by my colleague during the work of the committee on the regions was adopted. the amendments would have reinforced the principle of subsidiarity, taken stock of the situation in order to optimise the use of funds and reduced the delay in the launch of investments based on the structural funds. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ this report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy highlights the merits of the europe 2020 strategy which would contribute to the economic development of eu countries through increased investment and employment. unfortunately, it is impossible for me to know what data allow the rapporteur to reach such a conclusion when we know the eu's investment and employment deficit compared to the other major regional aggregates in the world... the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the european union's financial instruments. this report, which was supposed to focus on the review of the europe 2020 strategy, is actually nothing but a compliment to eu policy, leaving a void when it comes to addressing reform proposals. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report considers that the europe 2020 strategy and cohesion policy would contribute to economic development and job creation. it advocates strengthening the power of local authorities at the expense of the member states. local authorities would thus have the same opportunity as national governments to participate in the negotiations for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. i tabled 11 amendments to this text. they aim to reinforce the principle of subsidiarity and to underline that cohesion policy is ineffective and has little impact on economic development and the fight against social exclusion. none of them were adopted. this text does not add any value to the debate on the review of the europe 2020 strategy. the pompous and technocratic language used in this report does not conceal the empty, sidereal nature of their proposals. finally, i will never be able to oppose sufficiently the will of the european institutions to weaken the member states in order to impose their globalist and communitarian vision on the peoples. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is of paramount importance to the european union. it is through this policy that the structural funds are distributed. the structural funds benefit directly the european citizens. they enable them to implement their projects and establish a certain level of equality between the different regions of the member states. cohesion policy is a sign of solidarity between member states. the europe 2020 strategy highlights the union's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. europe 2020 provides the european union with a structure to ensure that european legislation and policies are used to achieve these common objectives. in the context of cohesion policy, the europe 2020 strategy has made it possible to better calibrate the management of funds. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report sets out the european parliament's position on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, which is at the heart of cohesion policy. as an instrument of investment and solidarity, the union's cohesion policy contributes to the implementation of the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. i believe that there is a need for better synergy between the various development programmes, including rural development, and european funding, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this mid-term review takes stock of the europe 2020 strategy and, although it is biased in many respects, no corrections are proposed. by placing the european commission, the member states and the territorial authorities on an equal footing in multilateral agreements, this strategy blurs institutional legitimacy and demeans nation states. while this report should take account of the need to strengthen the principle of subsidiarity and to acknowledge the ineffectiveness of such strategies both economically and socially, it merely praises them unfairly. i was opposed to this report because i was committed to the principle of subsidiarity, to the sound management of european funds and to putting an end to ineffective and costly integration policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the report does not add any value to the debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it proposes a balanced review of the europe 2020 strategy in order to better link the five objectives of the strategy and to assess their implementation without creating additional levels of complexity and excessive administrative burden. employment and growth will not be achieved by adding such burdens and we must therefore be very vigilant. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is involved in the discussions on the definition, implementation and evaluation of the policies covered by this strategy.
in writing. ‒ the text lauds the europe 2020 strategy which would contribute to economic development and job creation in europe... this text only highlights the positive aspects of the europe 2020 strategy, hiding its shortcomings... the report does not only show results that are far below expectations, but also shows a desire to reduce the role of the state in favour of local authorities. i also note that none of the amendments tabled by my colleague, mr steeve briois, during the work of the committee on the regions was adopted. the amendments would have reinforced the principle of subsidiarity, taken stock of the situation in order to optimise the use of funds and reduced the delay in the launch of investments based on the structural funds. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague fernando ruas on the review of the europe 2020 strategy from the perspective of cohesion policy. cohesion policy is the european union's main investment instrument and it is closely linked to the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the ruas report proposes a balanced and intelligent review of the strategy without creating additional levels of complexity, which i consider to be an essential condition. it emphasises multi-level governance, recommends setting optional regional targets where appropriate and recalls the importance of involving the european parliament. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to push the european commission to a balanced review of the europe 2020 cohesion policy. the report stresses in particular that cohesion policy is an essential element of european solidarity and that, as such, multi-level governance involving both local actors and the european parliament must be developed.
in writing. ‒ this ruas report is about cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy. the text praises the merits of the europe 2020 strategy, which would contribute to the economic development of the eu countries by increasing investment and employment. i do not know what data allows the rapporteur to reach such a conclusion, when we know the investment and employment deficit of the union compared to the other major regional groups in the world... the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. this report, which was supposed to focus on the review of the europe 2020 strategy, gives only satisfaction to the union's policy and leaves a void when it comes to addressing reform proposals. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the report praises the europe 2020 strategy and cohesion policy, which they believe would contribute to economic development, increased investment and job creation. at a time when europe is experiencing the worst political, social, economic and financial crises in its history, it is hard to be happy that 'everything is going well'. in practice, this report has absolutely no relevance to the debate on the europe 2020 strategy, since it focuses (intentionally?) only on the positive aspects.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy represents more than one third of the eu budget and is the eu's main investment instrument. this report focuses on the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy. it notes that disparities within the eu have increased with the economic crisis but does not propose any remedies. on the contrary, the new cohesion policy is in line with the objectives of europe 2020. it thus abandons the objectives of reducing disparities between regions in favour of 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'. i am voting against this text, which does not meet the expectations of the most disadvantaged regions.
in writing. this ruas report is about cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy. the text praises the merits of the europe 2020 strategy, which would contribute to the economic development of the eu countries by increasing investment and employment. i do not know what data allows the rapporteur to reach such a conclusion when we know the investment and employment deficit of the union compared to the other major regional groups in the world... the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the european union's financial instruments. this report, which was supposed to focus on the review of the europe 2020 strategy, gives only satisfaction to the union's policy and leaves a void when it comes to addressing reform proposals. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy currently being prepared by the commission. the text proposes a balanced revision of the strategy without creating additional levels of complexity. it recalled the importance of involving the european parliament and recommended that the commission set optional regional objectives which take account of the specific characteristics and constraints of rural areas, regions affected by industrial transition, island, cross-border and mountain regions and the outermost regions of the union.
in writing. this own-initiative report deals with the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy currently being worked on at european commission level, and more particularly with regard to the cohesion policy in this strategy. while acknowledging and warning the commission of the lack of progress on employment, social inclusion and poverty, and calling on the commission to rely on indicators more revealing than gdp to account for the widening disparities between member states and their regions, he did not call for the integration of cohesion policy objectives into the economic policies at work in the europe 2020 strategy. i welcome the references to the social and environmental progress made possible by this strategy but condemn the lack of solidarity and cohesive objectives in this report, which is why i abstain.
in writing. ‒ this ruas report is about cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy. the text praises the merits of the europe 2020 strategy, which would contribute to the economic development of the eu countries by increasing investment and employment. i do not know what data allows the rapporteur to reach such a conclusion, when we know the investment and employment deficit of the union compared to the other major regional groups in the world... the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. this report, which was supposed to focus on the review of the europe 2020 strategy, gives only satisfaction to the union's policy and leaves a void when it comes to addressing reform proposals. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european commission is currently reviewing the europe 2020 strategy. the european parliament adopted a report on the aspects of cohesion policy in the context of the review of the europe 2020 strategy. parliament urged the commission to ensure that cohesion policy was not made more complex and stressed the importance of multi-level governance and optional regional objectives. i voted in favour of this report and i stress the importance of involving parliament in this process. we are in regular contact with the regions and local communities, and our views are important.
in writing. ‒ this report comes as the commission prepares the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy. it is important to recall that cohesion policy is the main instrument of investment of the union and reflects european solidarity; it also meets the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the report thus addresses several messages on these two points. as regards the europe 2020 strategy, firstly, it is important to establish a better interconnection of the five objectives of the strategy without creating a new administrative burden or level of complexity. in addition, it is important that stakeholders are more involved in all stages from planning to evaluation; the setting of regional objectives could also be an important element in involving all the actors. the future cohesion policy and the future eu strategy for growth and jobs will have to be presented before the end of the current commission's mandate. i therefore supported this report which also recalls the importance of involving parliament in cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ this report celebrates the europe 2020 strategy and the cohesion policy which would contribute to economic development, increased investment and job creation. it also advocated strengthening local and regional authorities at the expense of the member states. it even suggests that local and national authorities should be treated equally in the negotiations, by proposing the signing of a pact between the commission, the member states and local and regional authorities to ensure their participation in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. finally, it welcomed the creation of the european fund for strategic investments. i object to all these considerations.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of mr lópez's report is to provide clarification on the use of article 23 of the regulation laying down common provisions on the european structural and investment funds. the text of the report insists that this article be applied in a balanced way. to this end, it rightly provides that incessant rescheduling must be avoided and that the suspension of payment mechanism, which is a discretionary power of the commission, must remain exceptional. the report also calls on the commission to present a white paper analysing the impact and effectiveness of public investment in the long term. i hope that this will oblige the commission to do so. however, independent study would be welcome. among the negative aspects of the report, i note that it places the entire responsibility for the increase in public debt on the budgetary policies of the member states, whereas the european union also has its share of responsibility, in particular through its aberrant monetary policy. the cohesion policy that the report promotes has not brought prosperity or growth. because this text limits the commission's room for manoeuvre, i abstained, despite my disagreement with the european economic governance.
in writing. ‒ macro-conditionality is an instrument whose scope remains very limited (cf. exceptional budgetary measures for greece). this principle is still too closely linked to the logic of fair return.
in writing. ‒ this report on the european structural and investment funds for good economic governance echoes the commission's communication on 'guidelines for the application of measures linking the effectiveness of the european structural and investment funds'. while the purpose of this text is to limit the commission's power to impose macroeconomic conditionality on aid, it does not remove these unacceptable provisions and thus reinforces the commission's grip on austerity. secondly, this report attributes the increase in public debt solely to the policies of the member states, whereas most of it comes from a transfer of private debt to the public (notably from the euro or laws prohibiting borrowing at 0% from national banks), reinforced by the austerity policy demanded by brussels. i abstained, however, because it diminishes the scope of the text presented by the commission.
in writing. ‒ article 23 of the common provisions regulation (cpr) establishes a link between the effectiveness of the efsi and the sound economic governance of the member states. this article is intended to make the receipt of european structural funds conditional on the macroeconomic performance of the member states, in particular in terms of deficit or public debt. if a state does not implement the structural reforms recommended by the commission, it may be suspended payments. the rapporteur therefore proposes to ensure that these provisions are applied in a balanced and exceptional manner. the rapporteur acknowledges, however, that the sharp increase in the debt ratio of the member states since 2008 is mainly the result of the mismanagement of the national governments' budgets and does not sufficiently highlight the commission's responsibility through the austerity cures it has imposed on the peoples of europe. the report also explains that cohesion policy has made it possible to respond to the current macroeconomic and budgetary constraints, which we strongly dispute. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ the structural and investment funds have a significant impact on the daily lives of european citizens. they enable citizens to take action and implement their projects. it is very important, however, to ensure that these funds are managed properly so that they can really serve their objectives. macroeconomic conditionality was introduced with this in mind. good governance in a member state is a prerequisite for the structural funds to be disbursed to local entities. however, such measures of reprogramming or suspension of the funds by the european commission are very rare and subject to many criteria for determining a breach of the principle of good governance. the objective of macroeconomic conditionality is to encourage member states to implement the structural reforms necessary for the recovery of the union's economic activity. the principle is commendable. however, care must be taken that decentralised, regional or municipal entities with a certain degree of management autonomy are not affected by bad decisions by a central state. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need for great caution in the use of macroeconomic conditionality.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to specify the conditions for the application of the good governance measures concerning the effective use of the european structural and investment funds. the report calls on the member states to make the best use of the flexibility provided for by the existing rules of the stability and growth pact in the use of the european structural and investment funds. it also considered it essential to ensure transparency and accountability by giving parliament democratic control over the governance system. the report also calls for the creation of a council configuration specifically devoted to cohesion policy. i voted in favour of this report in support of these objectives.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the guidelines for the implementation of macroeconomic conditionality in the framework of the structural funds, i wanted to criticise this text, which establishes a direct link between cohesion policy and the economic governance provisions introduced by the stability and growth pact, despite the constant opposition of local and regional authorities, who stress that they are not responsible for excessive national public deficits, since most of them are constitutionally obliged to balance their budgets. the esi funds, which have a proven positive impact on growth, are one of the most concrete examples of the principle of european solidarity, which is the basis of the european commitment of the socialists. we must be determined to preserve them. a too dogmatic approach to the convergence criteria must be excluded in the present case. how can we explain to the inhabitants of a territory that europe does not support them because the burden of debt for which they are not responsible but simply heirs is considered too heavy? it's a double unjust and unjustified punishment. as a former regional president, i can't help it.
in writing. ‒ this report on the structural and investment funds consists mainly of a relaxation of the rules for suspending payments of the said funds. the report, however, is not satisfactory, since it advocates a case-by-case analysis. it thus ignores the opposition to a globalised economy and further perpetuates the policy of integrating the economic policies of sovereign countries into a macroeconomic whole without legitimacy or effectiveness. despite some interesting ideas, the report is dominated by inconsistency, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because this report does not seek to remove the provisions on macroeconomic conditionality.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that cohesion policy is essential as an instrument to maintain investment in european regions, especially in a context of economic crisis and instability. while good economic governance is necessary, such mechanisms should not impede the pursuit of the broader objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion. it is in this spirit that i also voted in favour of amendment no 1, which i co-signed, calling for the exclusion of regional and national investments, co-financed by the esi funds, from the calculation of national deficits under the stability and growth pact. i am opposed to this macroeconomic conditionality mechanism which can only impose an unfair double penalty on local and regional authorities, who are not responsible for excessive national public deficits, since most of them are constitutionally obliged to balance their budgets.
in writing. ‒ this report provides details on the use of article 23 of the regulation laying down common provisions on the european structural and investment funds. the report by mr lopez essentially insists that this article be applied in a balanced way. to this end, it rightly states that incessant rescheduling should be avoided and that the suspension of payment mechanism, which is a discretionary power of the commission, remains exceptional. the report also calls on the commission to present a white paper analysing the impact and effectiveness of public investment in the long term. in the hope that it will oblige the commission, an independent study would nevertheless be desirable. nevertheless, this report places the entire responsibility for the increase in public debt on the budgetary policies of the member states, whereas the european union bears a large share of the responsibility, particularly through its monetary policy. the cohesion policy that the report promotes has not been a factor in growth. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague josé blanco lópez on the link between the european structural funds and sound economic governance. this report follows the publication by the european commission of guidelines on the provisions linking the effectiveness of the structural funds to good economic governance, contained in article 23 of the regulation laying down common provisions for the various funds. in other words, it is 'macro-economic conditionality', the principle of which was enacted in the last parliament. the report as we have voted for it is a good report which was the subject of a compromise between the socialists and the centre-right. on the one hand, it remains firm on the question of the stability of the macroeconomic environment, which can only increase the effectiveness of cohesion policy. on the other hand, it argues that reprogramming or suspension of funds should only be applied as a last resort in order to contribute to an effective implementation of the funds. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the member states' financial contributions to the structural funds are not used to the detriment of the regions. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ensure a justified and balanced application of the provisions making the structural funds conditional on compliance with the stability and growth pact. the structural funds must be used only in a context of good economic governance in this period of budgetary constraints.
in writing. ‒ this blanco lopez report on the european structural and investment funds for good economic governance echoes the commission's communication on 'guidelines for the application of measures linking the effectiveness of the european structural and investment funds'. while this text is intended to limit the commission's power in relation to the macroeconomic conditionality of aid, it does not remove these provisions which are unacceptable and will in fact strengthen the commission's leverage by promoting blackmailing austerity. moreover, this report attributes the increase in public debt solely to the policies of the member states, whereas the bulk of it comes from a transfer of private debt to the public, reinforced by the austerity policy demanded by brussels. i abstained, however, because it diminishes the scope of the text presented by the commission.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. some good points emerge from it, because it tends to limit the commission's power and recalls the exceptional nature of the suspension of payment mechanism, as well as the counterproductivity of frequent rescheduling. however, it also refuses to acknowledge the commission's responsibility for the increase in public debt and falsely claims that cohesion policy has played a crucial role and made it possible to respond in a significant way to the current macroeconomic and budgetary constraints!
in writing. ‒ the report deals with article 23 of the cohesion policy regulation (the cpr), i.e. the economic macro-conditionality, which links cohesion policy to the rules of economic governance. that is to say, the austerity rules. these macro-conditionalities were renamed 'measures linking cohesion policy to economic governance' after the trilogues, but that does not change anything! the report criticises the mechanism, for example by acknowledging the risks it poses to regions, especially the most vulnerable. the criticism comes a little late and after the socialist group has supported these macro-conditionalities which link the structural funds to austerity. i vote against this hypocritical text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of mr lópez's report is to provide clarification on the use of article 23 of the regulation laying down common provisions on the european structural and investment funds. the text of the report insists that this article be applied in a balanced way. to this end, it rightly states that incessant rescheduling should be avoided and that the suspension of payment mechanism, which is a discretionary power of the commission, should remain exceptional. the report also calls on the commission to present a white paper analysing the impact and effectiveness of public investment in the long term. i hope that this will oblige the commission to do so. however, independent study would be welcome. the report places the entire responsibility for the increase in public debt on the budgetary policies of the member states, while the european union also has its share of responsibility, in particular through its aberrant monetary policy. the cohesion policy that the report promotes has not brought prosperity or growth. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. this blanco lópez report on the european structural and investment funds for good economic governance echoes the commission's communication on 'guidelines for the application of measures linking the effectiveness of the european structural and investment funds'. while this text is intended to limit the commission's power in relation to the macroeconomic conditionality of aid, it does not remove these provisions which are unacceptable and will in fact strengthen the commission's leverage by promoting blackmailing austerity. moreover, this report attributes the increase in public debt solely to the policies of the member states, whereas the bulk of it comes from a transfer of private debt to the public, reinforced by the austerity policy demanded by brussels. i abstained, however, because it diminishes the scope of the text presented by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) and sound economic governance. the text calls on the member states to make the most of the flexibility provided for by the existing rules of the stability and growth pact, while stressing the need to involve local and regional authorities in any reprogramming exercise. however, it recommends that such reprogramming be limited to what is strictly necessary. it is important to ensure the stability of the macroeconomic environment, which can only increase the effectiveness of cohesion policy.
in writing. the report concerns article 23 of the cohesion policy regulation dealing with macro-conditionality. macro-conditionality allows the european commission to block the financing of european programmes for a member state that is under an excessive deficit procedure under the stability and growth pact. the report makes some criticisms of the application of these macro-conditionality criteria to cohesion policy, which by its nature should not be subject to a logic of budgetary austerity, given its solidarity and investment dimension. but these criticisms are too little too late. we tried, during the negotiations on the regulation of cohesion policy, to protect the most vulnerable regions and those most dependent on the european structural funds, but our institution was not able to exclude them from this mechanism. i would also like to see a proposal in this own-initiative report to exclude national co-financing from the european funds from the calculation of the member states' deficit. this proposal was not accepted. for these reasons, i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ this blanco lopez report on the european structural and investment funds for good economic governance echoes the commission's communication on 'guidelines for the application of measures linking the effectiveness of the european structural and investment funds'. while this text is intended to limit the commission's power in relation to the macroeconomic conditionality of aid, it does not remove these provisions which are unacceptable and will in fact strengthen the commission's leverage by promoting blackmailing austerity. moreover, this report attributes the increase in public debt solely to the policies of the member states, whereas the bulk of it comes from a transfer of private debt to the public, reinforced by the austerity policy demanded by brussels. i have, however, abstained because it weakens the text presented by the commission.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of the text on the european structural and investment funds and sound economic governance. i voted for this text and i stress the importance of good economic governance to ensure a more sound management of european funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out a number of elements concerning the application of the first part of article 23 and aims to ensure a justified and balanced application of the provisions. article 23 of the common provisions regulation contains provisions on measures linking the efficiency of the european structural and investment funds to good economic governance. we have always stressed the importance of the stability of the macroeconomic environment as this stability increases the effectiveness of cohesion policy, but it should also be noted that the provisions linking the effectiveness of the esi funds to good economic governance should only be applied as a last resort, following all the steps in article 23.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to clarify the context in which article 23 of the cpr can be used. this article, which concerns measures linking the effectiveness of the esi funds to good economic governance, is far from unanimous. during the legislative process, the rapporteurs even proposed to abolish the macroeconomic conditionality provisions. they were eventually included in the regulation. the report by mr blanco lopez aims to ensure that the provisions of article 23 are applied in a balanced way. it is a text which is not satisfactory but which calls for a more flexible application of the provisions on the reprogramming of the esi funds and which calls on the commission to take account of the economic and social situation of each member state before suspending payments. i shall abstain on this text.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, as i said in june, this project is a symbol of the paradoxes of the european union. the controls at the external borders will be further strengthened to make the eu more attractive and to facilitate movement. who will benefit? how long? and who will be the victims? since the last council, and you have just confirmed it, there is no doubt. first, the migrants. but we're not able to open legal channels. and there is no problem in finding funding, unlike what happens for rescue at sea and for the reception of migrants and refugees. the question is whether this new system is appropriate, given that there are already a plethora of eurosur, eurodac, sis, vis, etc. what interests ultimately serve this flight forwards to safety? why this inability to assess existing systems? how will all these devices be coordinated? where is the concern for public finances? the stakes are still high. and i am not even talking about the way the european parliament is treated when one of our rapporteurs discovers a third option from the commission on tape. so it is all there: financial blunder, security leakage, disregard for fundamental rights, lack of serious evaluation. and i am talking about political evaluation, including all the parameters, not purely technical evaluation. all this is not serious. as with the pnr, we are told, "there is an emergency". but let us not get our priorities wrong, commissioner, minister. so we in the gue/ngl will continue to oppose this useless, dangerous and contrary to the so-called values of the european union.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, minister, you are living in complete illusion. the war, i'm not telling you, is on our borders. and there is no smart border, because your smart borders don't even fulfill their primary role, that of checks and prohibitions. it's another term coined by the technocracy: "smart border". your borders are not smart, because since schengen you have been dismantling them. since the creation of your smart borders package, borders have never been so accessible. i would even say that the frontiers in europe have become straw-pulling machines. your project is not smart, it's just dangerous. what you will gain is that every european state, by listening to you, will take back its sovereignty and control of its borders, because today no one trusts this european union anymore. long live the free nations of europe!
mr president, cepol is a european agency responsible for training police officers, customs officers, border guards and prosecutors in the member states. created in 2005, it has a disappointing record. i strongly condemn the proposal made to us today to renovate it. cepol is a useless and expensive agency. rather than renovating it, it should be merged into europol, as the brussels commission had recommended. the only reason for keeping it in the agency status is to please hungary, where it is based. cepol is a gas factory that the british were wise enough to evict from their territory. it is consubstantial with the disastrous schengen agreements and deserves the same fate as them, death.
madam president, i want to start by applauding the courage of edward snowden. he chose to give up his freedom to inform us of the massive surveillance being conducted by the nsa. what did you do with these revelations? nothing or almost nothing. the commission's silence is deafening. no lessons were learned. after the time of indignation, everyone prefers to ignore that these most fundamental rights are violated every day; worse, under the cover of security, are the states - including france - that adopt freedom-threatening laws where the prerogatives of the intelligence services are expanded, where judicial and parliamentary control is almost non-existent and where every citizen becomes a potential suspect. as for whistleblowers, the commission has not even considered the possibility of creating a european statute protecting them. snowden will have sacrificed his freedom to see the society he so feared built, a society that shuts down and freezes its citizens, that instead of protecting them, suspects them, and instead of freeing them, coerces them. mr dombrovskis, will the commission finally follow parliament's recommendations?
madam president, this instrument, together with computers, tablets and all other communicating objects, can be the best or the worst of things. if i use it for work, for information, for education, or to keep my family informed, it's the best, and it's useful. if i use it to organize a smuggling, an attack or for harm to society and people, it is the worst, and it is hateful. and of course, all the mass information that's in these communicating objects ends up in the cloud. how do we tell the wheat from the weeds? this is the whole question of the balance between security and freedom that is being asked today. it is a question that has been recurring and we have been debating it for a very long time. i think that citizens themselves have a number of questions, depending on the news, and if, today, they want to keep their freedom - and this is unavoidable from my point of view - and also want to be protected, we have to find a way to make sure that technology meets the law.
in writing. open borders, the unlimited interconnection of communications networks and the mass distribution of digital data are the causes of a global regulatory failure. the risk is that we will think we can control this space dominated by new information and communication technologies, by rules of surveillance. yet this is the dramatic and liberticidal dynamic that has been borrowed by many governments for political, military and economic purposes. mass surveillance is a reality and there is no reason to believe that the states will back down on this issue. because, unable to control the flow of people and to regulate the use of computer data around the world, most governments have opted for the pre-totalitarian formula of the end of privacy and individual espionage, which is soon to be legal, alas. i fear that this is the last straw in a world strangely mixed with neoliberalism and authoritarian socialism. as a champion of liberty, i will remain uncompromising with the integrity of the private lives of my fellow citizens.
mr president, i do not want to interfere with your control of this plenary, but we are two hours late and every intervention in this debate is a blue card, which obviously does not help to revive the debate but simply allows new speakers to be added to the list that was originally planned. could you please stop handing out blue cards so that the registered speakers can normally take the floor in this debate?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, according to the enf, the findings are unfortunately overwhelming when it comes to the european semester 2015. despite successive reports and coordination cycles, macroeconomic indicators are still in the red. the divergence in growth, borrowing, unemployment and inflation rates in the 19 eurozone economies is proof that the euro was never, ex post, the optimal currency area that the ultra-liberal elites promised the citizens from the beginning. in a frantic flight to escape the sad realities of this policy of destroying wealth and jobs, europe's bewildered leaders pushed the experiment to economic federalism. to complete economic and monetary union, the report of the five presidents thus proposes more binding country-specific recommendations or, worse still, a single representation of the euro zone. as if having mr dombrovskis or mr moscovici as european minister tomorrow would change anything about the structural economic decline of our eurozone countries. the same causes will produce the same effects: austerity which kills domestic demand, free trade, the ecb's hyper-laxity, the lax attitude of the states towards multinationals and banks, privatisation, deregulation of the labour market, mass immigration will lead europeans to social misery. your policy is one of deadlock, it is time to get out of it, otherwise do not be surprised by the rise of euroscepticism among the peoples.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would ask you to look carefully at the package which the commission has just put on the table, because it does not seem to me to correspond to the objectives of the luxembourg presidency. commissioner, i have the impression that you are unaware of a letter which was sent by the president of this institution to the president of your institution and which reads: 'on behalf of the conference of presidents i would therefore like to formally ask you as president of the european commission to reconsider the package in light of the point raised here'. i do not have time to go over the points raised by the president of parliament in this letter, but i would draw your attention to them. i thank you for quoting the berès report, but you seem to be ignoring its essence. the essence of the berès report is to show that treaties can do a lot. the road map you have just proposed seems to be your answer to the question: what can be done without revising the treaties? if we can only do what you have proposed, the euro is in a very bad way. what do you say about the need to redefine the investment priority for the euro area or the real convergence, which implies fiscal and social harmonization? what do you think of the famous social dimension which the president of the commission has told us would be the triple a of his mandate? and then i am worried because sometimes, when i listen to you and read what you say, i have the impression that you are actually responding to a road map of your political family, politically and institutionally. this is not acceptable to my political family, whose support is essential for the exercise of power by your commission. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i thank the british citizen for his interest in the situation of the french economy, and i invite him to look at the latest unemployment figures, which are the result of the policy undertaken by the president of the republic, françois hollande.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tackling youth unemployment, and in particular longterm unemployment in europe, is a colossal challenge, but to achieve it, it is better to have the means, and this is not the case. i have heard mr juncker, i have heard mr hollande, in front of the european trade unions, they all say 'social europe', but they have only that word in their mouths and behind there is nothing! so i tell them, "shit, now is the time". that's the first thing. so i do not understand why we are content today with a debate, a council recommendation, which does not oblige the member states to follow its content. we have seen the limitations of this method with the youth guarantee. when we leave the states free to do what they want, they do little or nothing. yes, you are right, we need a european initiative. you talk about concrete, let's get to the concrete! we have talked about the juncker plan, we have talked about investment plans, today, no news! we are talking about china, which might invest in the juncker plan. is it serious? you are really talking about real issues, minister. but we cannot solve the unemployment problem if we do not deal with social dumping, with tax dumping, because behind tax dumping we have the money to create the jobs of the future. and i'll end, because that's where it matters most: job creation. we are one month away from the summit of the last chance to save the climate, cop 21. we must reconcile the economy and the climate, the economy and the environment, and put the emphasis on renewable energy and the social and solidarity economy. let us build a european industrial policy together with new tools, because that is where the local jobs for citizens will be, jobs that cannot be relocated.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, shadow banking, which is constantly being infused by central banks, is a danger to the stability of the world economy. the artificial inflation of toxic derivatives, such as cds-type swaps, only makes the economic situation worse. without any regulation or supervision by the banking authorities, trillions of dollars or euros of off-balance-sheet assets are circulating in the most opaque way. the proposal for a regulation on securities financing operations requires the players to play the game of transparency with regard to transactions and listed companies. but it lacks ambition and could be more restrictive, particularly in terms of the ban on the reuse of collateral, which is a major factor in risk spreading, and by taking account of the operations of public institutions. above all, the only effective reform is the real separation between deposit banks and commercial banks but the end of the universal banking model, using deposits for speculation, will not take place as long as there are irresponsible politicians subject to the banking lobby , the aim being to no longer put financial contribution neither citizens nor customers to bail out insolvent private banks.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the hearing on the european daylight saving time changes by pavel svoboda and michael cramer, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on transport and tourism (o-000111/2015 - b8-0768/2015) (2015/2722(rsp)).
madam president, commissioner, for 40 years europeans have been changing the time twice a year. it's time to go back to a single time system, as russia did in 2011. the experts heard by the european parliament on 24 march 2015 showed that the change in time has many disadvantages: sleep disturbances, especially in children, heart attacks and disturbance of livestock, especially dairy cows. the benefits that were hoped for have not been realized - neither savings nor a reduction in the number of traffic accidents. in these circumstances, the european union must abandon the change of time. in order to take account of the expectations expressed by 76% of the french people, i am asking that summertime be maintained rather than wintertime. i ask the commission to listen to the citizens and to stop its blocking, which no one understands.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by jacqueline foster, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), commonly known as unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs), in the field of civil aviation (2014/2243(ini)) (a8-0261/2015).
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to thank, of course, mrs foster for the report that has been drawn up and presented, and the other political groups for the good work they have done. at present there is no global legislation, either in the world or in europe, or among our major international competitors, whether in the united states or china. several member states have already started legislation and we europeans are the world leaders in the field of drones, with more than half of the world's companies in this sector. i would remind you that this market will represent at least 80 billion in turnover and 100 000 jobs by 2025. so if we want to remain leaders, we have the opportunity to write the rules of flight that will then become global. these rules will dictate the technological standards applicable to drones and the challenge is to impose our vision on the world: we can take the gsm standard for mobile phones as an example. it is not enough to be the first to have rules, they must also be good, and european rules must give companies the maximum freedom to innovate while guaranteeing absolute protection for the public. to date, two million drones have been sold and no deaths have been reported. it is clear that this report gives very clear answers, particularly to the commission: data protection is essential, privacy must be protected. but we have to let the drone develop; indeed, blocking drones would be like banning telephoto lenses from cameras. so today we have a clear innovation, a simple proposal, so we anticipate and we do not disappoint with this report.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, i welcome your text, mrs foster. i think it is very positive that it is not in any way intended to regulate military drones. because of their strategic stakes, it was necessary to be very clear on this point. i share your concern to give small and mediumsized enterprises a framework flexible enough to enable them to remain competitive in the face of foreign competition, particularly from the united states. i support the idea of stimulating debate among stakeholders in order to define a balanced regulation that protects privacy and ensures the safety of individuals while promoting the emergence of new technologies. in addition, as i said in committee, it is essential that member states and the competent national authorities retain a significant margin of manoeuvre to allow or prohibit the use of drones over sensitive areas. in this respect, i fully agree with paragraph 44 of the report, which calls for greater exchanges of views between the member states, the national regulatory authorities, the european union, the civil aviation sector and smes. i shall therefore vote in favour of your text.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although drones were for a long time limited to the military, they are now everywhere, from agriculture to cinema to logistics and security. i would like to emphasize the quality of mrs foster's report, which was able to distinguish between the potential and the specific nature of these drones and to identify a great many of the problems they pose in terms of their integration into civil society. in view of this development, we are naturally in favour of harmonized regulations throughout the union. any other approach would prevent the emergence of a european market, and would probably mean fewer outlets for a booming industry. on the other hand, we must remain extremely vigilant on a number of aspects, which have been highlighted in the report: protection of privacy, risk-based approach, distinction between recreational and professional use. we must also ensure that european leadership in this area is promoted by equipping the european aviation safety agency with the means to defend our industry against the rest of the world. in short, we need a reasonable and ambitious approach, and that is what mrs foster's report offers us.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate mrs foster, the rapporteur, on her work and on the excellent work done by the fictitious rapporteurs. in adopting this report, the european parliament is taking the lead in setting the groundwork for a future european regulatory framework for drones. this is a major challenge for the future of our civil aviation and the competitiveness of our companies in a market with great potential. the european union could no longer ignore this reality, and i hope that the commission will heed the recommendations of the members of the european parliament. in this context, safety issues are of paramount importance and require particular attention, in particular in relation to the use, control and monitoring of drones and users or the prohibition of flying over certain sensitive areas. the report also highlights the issues of data protection, which will have to be taken into account by the commission. the future european framework will also need to take into account the differences between recreational and commercial use of drones, which are inherently different. with today's vote, we are sending a message of support to the aviation sector for the development of a european drone market, as well as a political message to the commission to propose an ambitious framework.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 29 october, at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mrs isabelle de monte, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism in europe (2014/2241 (ini)) (a8-0258/2015).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the european union that was sold to us has failed miserably and the peoples of europe are turning their backs on it. but let that be the case, you are proposing today to turn europe into a mere marketing product. and to achieve your goals, you're nowhere near a paradox. you say that the administrative burden on smes must be reduced, but you add to it with new regulations. you say that the conflicts in ukraine and the middle east and terrorism threaten tourism, but the european union has encouraged chaos in ukraine and has not supported syria in its fight against islamist terrorism. you talk about the challenges of tourism without even mentioning the rampant insecurity that infects this sector. you deplore the harmful effects of mass tourism, but you are advocating even more tourists, and finally you speak of european identity and cultural wealth, but i fear that these are essentially values which are destructive of the europe of nations to which we aspire. that is why we shall vote against this report.
in writing. i would like to raise two questions. first, how do you see trade security? we must ensure that all interactions and data exchanged between pilots, aircraft and air traffic control are protected: hacking and other sabotage attempts are becoming more frequent, yet we hardly ever talk about them. the threat is real. secondly, the use of this new technology will most certainly generate new industrial demand. so can europe capitalise on its know-how to promote these technologies in this new market? i believe so, but we still need a political impulse. great projects give rise to great ideas, especially in the field of space and aeronautics.
mr president, in my absence yesterday i was accused in a most abject manner by mr weber of facts of which i am absolutely innocent, which was also revealed at the conference of presidents this morning. mr weber has committed two offences: defamation of me and slanderous denunciation, and this, in this case, without any evidence. so, what happened yesterday that justifies this movie? i left my voting card. that is what dozens of members of parliament are doing, and you know it. we put our card in at the beginning of the session and we take it out at the end of the session. but don't you have any other arguments, seriously, than that? my colleague, mr de graaff, whom i would like to say is the perfect example of courtesy and ethics, thought i had left for a few seconds and actually voted four times in my absence and without my authorization. he did, of course, make a mistake. does that justify, again, this cinema? and i want to say something, my dear fellow citizens: he showed, thinking i was gone for a few seconds, the chivalrous spirit that you would do well to inspire from time to time. so, mr president, i reserve my right to bring an action and i intend to bring a complaint against mr weber, who has made unbearable accusations against me.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur is of the opinion that effective and harmonious crossborder cooperation is needed to combat organised and transnational crime. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the reform aims to adapt cepol to the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and to entrust the agency with the implementation of the new european programme on training for law enforcement services (services relating to police, border guards, customs and prosecutors). with my colleagues from the national front, we believe that voting for this reform would be to support the schengen system. the disappearance of frontiers within the schengen area requires this kind of european agency. for too long the schengen area has clearly shown its limits and its perversity. today, in the face of the invasion of migrants, it is more necessary than ever to denounce the schengen agreements and to re-establish strict controls at the borders of the member states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of this new european agency.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) to improve crossborder cooperation between competent national authorities to counter the threat posed by organised and transnational crime. the proposal for a regulation aims to modernise the legal basis for ecpol by adapting it to the lisbon treaty. however, i cannot endorse this text as it would be supporting schengen, the two being totally linked. i think that border controls would be more effective than another bureaucratic agency... i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes a series of recommendations to improve the efficiency of the european agency for law enforcement training (cepol). the rapporteur considers that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the legal framework for the european union is properly applied. in this context of migration flows, there is a need to increase cooperation, training and exchange of good practice between law enforcement agencies in the union in order to ensure better application of european legislation. for these reasons i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the european police college on law enforcement training deals with the guidelines it gives to the various national police schools. because it aims to fill the gaps in the training of police services on crossborder issues, this report is of course relevant. however, this additional funding to improve training is not necessary. the european police college should not exist. it is only an unfortunate consequence of the creation of the schengen area. without schengen, border control would be much more effective, being carried out by the states themselves, according to their policies decided upon sovereignly and democratically. following the logic of the free trade dogma, these supranational policies have no place, and i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it endorses the schengen system.
in writing. ‒ cepol is the european agency responsible for training law enforcement agencies. the meeting of staff from different member states is a rewarding opportunity to compare practices and cultures. the parallel to the great freedom of movement granted to citizens in the schengen area has been the explosion of large-scale crossborder crime. in such a context, the police in a member state can no longer afford to work separately from their counterparts if they want to be able to effectively track down criminals and high-level criminals. in general, i support all initiatives to strengthen the capacity of the agencies and services responsible for combating crossborder crime and terrorism, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report finds that effective and harmonious crossborder cooperation is needed to combat organised and transnational crime. the report states that the current situation warrants a modernisation of the legal basis of cepol (european police college), which is an eu agency responsible for training law enforcement agencies. the reform aims to adapt cepol to the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and to entrust the agency with the implementation of the new european programme on training for law enforcement services (services relating to police, border guards, customs and prosecutors). i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague kinga gál on the eu agency responsible for law enforcement training (cepol). the report aims to strengthen the ecpol agency to combat large scale crossborder crime more effectively, in particular through the training of law enforcement officers. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european union agency for law enforcement training, cepol. i believe, of course, that effective and harmonious crossborder cooperation between the police services of the member states is essential to counter the growing threat of transnational crime. in this context, it is important that the police officers concerned receive quality training. this training, however, does not necessarily have to come from an eu body. it is also responsible for many of the problems. the disappearance of internal border controls (schengen) and the lack of external border controls have contributed to a very large extent to the development of crossborder crime within the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it proposes to renew cepol, which was set up in 2005. i am opposed to this european police training agency because its existence is consubstantial with that of the schengen agreement. cepol is also unnecessarily expensive, as the brussels commission has acknowledged by proposing to merge it into europol. the british, who had him, wisely expelled him.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against it. ideologically, we can only oppose this text, because to support it would be to recognise the usefulness and legitimacy of the schengen area. it should not be forgotten that without the schengen area we would not need this agency, since border control would already be effective, since it is carried out by the member states at their respective borders. as for cooperation between police services, it would be left to the discretion of the states, when necessary, without unnecessary expenditure of resources and means. the cross-border question is constantly on the minds of brussels and is proving its ineffectiveness every day (the free movement of terrorists and weapons is a good example). the solution so simple of returning to the borders, is obvious.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur is of the opinion that effective and harmonious crossborder cooperation is needed to combat organised and transnational crime. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the reform aims to adapt cepol to the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and to entrust the agency with the implementation of the new european programme on training for law enforcement services (services relating to police, border guards, customs and prosecutors). in the national front we believe that voting for this reform would be to support the schengen system. the disappearance of frontiers within the schengen area requires this kind of european agency. for too long, the schengen area has clearly shown its limits. today, in the face of the invasion of migrants, it is more necessary than ever to denounce the schengen agreements and to re-establish strict controls at the borders of the member states. the member has therefore voted against this report.
in writing. this kinga report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) to improve crossborder cooperation between competent national authorities to counter the threat posed by organised and transnational crime. the proposal for a regulation aims to modernise the legal basis for ecpol by adapting it to the lisbon treaty. however, i cannot endorse this text, since it would be tantamount to giving a blank check to schengen policy, the two being totally linked. i think that border controls would be more effective than another bureaucratic agency... i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. this report focuses on the strengthening of the european law enforcement training programme pursued by cepol. the proposed regulation would provide cepol with the legal mandate and resources necessary to implement the training programme, and thus enable it to finance training for police officers, border guards, customs officers and prosecutors, among others, to make them more operational in the fight against cross-border crime. it also proposed that parliament should approve the establishment of cepol's headquarters in budapest, whereas it was originally planned to be in the hague. i am in favour of funding training for law enforcement officers, but i regret that in this respect the european union is gradually acquiring a comprehensive instrument of repression which casts the shadow of a european army over the objectives of our union. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this kinga report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) to improve crossborder cooperation between the competent national authorities to counter the threat posed by organised and transnational crime. the proposal for a regulation aims to modernise the legal basis for ecpol by adapting it to the lisbon treaty. however, i cannot endorse this text, since it would be tantamount to giving a blank check to schengen policy, the two being totally linked. i think that border controls would be more effective than another bureaucratic agency... i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the growing threats to the security of european citizens, the european parliament adopted a text to promote and strengthen the role of the european agency for law enforcement training (cepol). i believe it is important to coordinate our action at european level in order to combat crossborder crime more effectively, and the first step is to train european officials.
in writing. ‒ the regulation in question sets out rules to make transparent securities financing operations, which are generally referred to as 'shadow banking' and which correspond to a phenomenon with fuzzy outlines involving a whole set of entities whose financial intermediation activities are called 'parallel'. these are not part of traditional banking operations. these operations are thus virtually unregulated and use attractive (low taxation and high interest) but dangerous (no public guarantee) channels. they are made by investment banks, mutual funds, insurance companies, pension or money funds, private equity firms and hedge funds. the need for flexible regulation of these activities has become more urgent, especially since the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008. indeed, the opacity of the operations generated by shadow banking, by not allowing the owners of the securities and their real value to be identified, is partly responsible for the spread of the crisis in the united states, and then in the world by ricochet. the european regulations we were subject to mitigate the risk inherent in this type of activity, in particular by imposing more transparency. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the transparency of securities financing transactions covers all transactions that use assets to generate financing. this is therefore a significant part of the shadow banking activity carried out by economic agents not bound by banking legislation. this shadow finance is dangerous, as it is not controlled and its growth is exponential. the trialogue last june resulted in an agreement on transparency obligations which is welcome but still insufficient. a simple register will not be enough!! the rapporteur goes further, for example, by proposing stricter controls on the reuse of safety belts, which is a particularly harmful practice. i have decided to vote in favour of this report to regulate this practice. i would remind you that i recently tabled a motion for a resolution on the limitation of shadow banking activities and that efforts in this area must be continued.
in writing. ‒ the securities financing operations regulation is part of a package of legislative measures proposed by the commission to create greater transparency in the shadow banking system. the shadow banking system is the set of activities and actors contributing to the non-bank financing of the economy. like all shadow banking regulations, it is designed to create rules equivalent to those to which banks are subject to prevent the transfer of financial operations from the traditional banking system, which has been highly regulated since the crisis, to the shadow banking system. securities financing operations are a rapid and necessary means of financing the real economy. however, without regulation to increase transparency, they can lead to financial market destabilisation, as in 2008. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to improve the financial stability of the union by enhancing transparency in certain market activities, in particular in securities financing operations. securities financing transactions are the borrowing, selling or lending of securities to create liquidity, facilitate financing or simply to reveal their value. the 2008 financial crisis highlighted the weaknesses of the financial regulatory system and the need for increased transparency and oversight of the traditional banking sector and non-bank credit institutions. the report proposes, in particular, that the way investment funds use financing operations be disclosed to investors and the public. i believe that transparency is one of the key measures to reform the financial sector and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the transparency of securities financing operations is an interesting approach. by proposing a requirement for transparency and reporting of transactions in a central repository and forcing listed companies that use this type of transaction to inform their investors, it is moving in the right direction. however, this report is only a watered-down version of the previous versions. while the soru report strictly regulated the reuse of collateral and the banking structural reform directive proposed to separate speculative and risky banking activities, the latter version abandoned these important points. however, i did vote in favour of the report, which proposes welcome regulations on this sector, which is not sufficiently monitored.
in writing. ‒ the text lays down rules to make securities financing operations, commonly referred to as 'shadow banking', transparent. shadow banking is a vague phenomenon involving a whole group of entities whose financial intermediation activities are described as 'parallel'. these are not part of traditional banking operations. these operations thus benefit from almost no regulation and use attractive (few or no taxes and high interest) but dangerous (no government guarantee) channels. they are made by investment banks, mutual funds, insurance companies, pension or money funds, private equity firms and hedge funds. the need for flexible regulation of these activities has become more urgent, especially since the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008. indeed, the opacity of the operations generated by shadow banking, by not allowing the owners of the securities and their real value to be identified, is partly responsible for the spread of the crisis in the united states, and then in the world by ricochet. the european regulation we voted for mitigates the risk inherent in this type of activity, in particular by imposing more transparency. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr renato soru, on the transparency of securities financing operations. this report is part of the effort to regulate the shadow banking system. indeed, while securities financing operations contribute to market liquidity and allow central banks to refinance themselves, they can, without regulation, lead to significant market destabilisation, as we saw in 2008. the text therefore seeks to mitigate these negative effects by creating rules equivalent to those to which banks are subject. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the transparency of securities financing operations. this is a significant part of non-bank lending activities. this parallel finance is dangerous in many ways: by the colossal amounts it represents, by its opacity, by the excessive use of leverage, by the spread of risk to a chain of misidentified investors, etc. the trilogue concluded on 17 june 2015 resulted in an agreement on transparency obligations and reporting of these transactions to a central repository. in addition, for listed companies using these operations, it will be necessary to inform investors. it is therefore a step in the right direction. however, it is still not enough. the original report was rather strict on, for example, the reuse of collateral, whereas the version which is being put to the vote is less restrictive. i believe that these operations should be strictly prohibited. moreover, the real reform to avoid risk dispersion is the separation of banking activities. the elimination of the universal bank is a more effective bulwark against the contagion of financial sector risks. unfortunately, this point has now reached a dead end.
in writing. ‒ in financial markets, the development of complex transactions (whether forwards, over-the-counter or temporary) has been exponential since the early 2000s. the regulator is forced to monitor financial innovations remotely. this is the case for temporary securities financing transactions (ctt), whereby an operator may put into reserve securities it holds in exchange for a consideration. these operations are used extensively by banks for refinancing purposes, but are very poorly informed. european and national regulators are not informed of the potential reuse of, for example, retired securities. this creates chains of interdependence that can lead to contagion in a crisis. the soru report sets out three basic rules: an obligation to report counterparties to the european securities and markets authority, an obligation to inform investors, and a limitation on the possibilities for re-use of retired securities. although the problem of financial innovation may have to be tackled more from the outset, i support any regulation that aims to moderate complex transactions, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the regulation in question sets out rules to make transparent the securities financing operations commonly referred to as 'shadow banking'. the term refers to a blurred phenomenon involving a whole group of entities whose financial intermediation activities are called 'parallel'. these are not part of traditional banking operations. these operations thus benefit from almost no regulation and use attractive (few or no taxes and high interest) but dangerous (no government guarantee) channels. they are made by investment banks, mutual funds, insurance companies, pension or money funds, private equity firms and hedge funds. the need for flexible regulation of these activities has become more urgent, especially since the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008. indeed, the opacity of the operations generated by shadow banking, by not allowing the owners of the securities and their real value to be identified, is partly responsible for the spread of the crisis in the united states, and then in the world by ricochet. the european regulation we voted for mitigates the risk inherent in this type of activity, in particular by imposing more transparency. the member therefore voted in favour.
in writing. this soru report is about the transparency of securities financing transactions, which is all transactions that use assets to generate financing. this is therefore a significant part of the shadow banking activity carried out by economic agents not bound by banking legislation. this shadow finance is dangerous, as it is not controlled and its growth is exponential. the trialogue last june resulted in an agreement on transparency obligations which is welcome but still insufficient. the rapporteur goes further, for example, by proposing stricter controls on the reuse of safety belts, which is a particularly harmful practice. i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this soru report is about the transparency of securities financing transactions, which is all transactions that use assets to generate financing. this is therefore a significant part of the shadow banking activity carried out by economic agents not bound by banking legislation. this shadow finance is dangerous, as it is not controlled and its growth is exponential. the trialogue last june resulted in an agreement on transparency obligations which is welcome but still insufficient. the rapporteur goes further, for example, by proposing stricter controls on the reuse of safety belts, which is a particularly harmful practice. i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ to promote a more transparent banking system, the european commission has proposed a set of legislative measures. in this context, the european parliament adopted a regulation encouraging greater transparency for securities financing operations. these operations are mainly securities and commodities lending or borrowing transactions. i am in favour of a more transparent banking system, in order to avoid certain abuses and limit the instability of financial markets (as in 2008).
in writing. this report looks at the mass surveillance scandals that have plagued the us intelligence community, particularly the nsa. in general, this text is in line with the protection of privacy; it denounces the data collection methods and the drift of states to turn citizens into potential criminals and calls on member states to drop all prosecutions against edward snowden and to provide him with political asylum. the report also stresses the importance of setting up control bodies at member state level to ensure that special services do not go beyond their role by collecting data on individuals. the report also calls for the introduction of a european data protection system. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which seeks to ask the commission to ensure that all data transfers to the united states are subject to an effective level of protection.
in writing. ‒ this follow-up motion for a resolution on the electronic mass surveillance of citizens takes stock of the lack of action taken by the european commission, other eu institutions and member states to address widespread surveillance. while some aspects of this resolution are in the right direction (stopping the prosecution of snowden, or stopping the transfer of data to the us), the text is overly european and advocates solutions that undermine the sovereignty of the member states, such as the invitation to the commission to bring certain member states to justice, to draw up recommendations to the member states, etc. the commission, through measures which seemed to be going in the right direction, is in fact trying to control citizens and states more. big brother is watching you! i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. the resolution is, however, questionable in that it denounces recent decisions by some member states, including france, to expand the surveillance capabilities of intelligence agencies. i believe that these measures are balanced and aim at strengthening the fight against terrorism, and i have therefore decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on the electronic mass surveillance of eu citizens because the content of this report is problematic. i cannot support the political message that this report is sending to our american partners, nor the attacks on a number of countries, including france. following the promulgation of the law on intelligence, which was passed by the national assembly last july, france is suspected of organizing mass surveillance of citizens, as are the united kingdom, germany and the netherlands. the text also suspends the eu-us programme for monitoring terrorist financing, which is essential for identifying the perpetrators of the attacks, as was the case for the boston attacks in 2013.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. it is true that it contains some relevant requests, but it also asks the commission to do things that are impossible for it to do because of its pro-american bias. the commission is in a very bad position to act, having pushed for the swift agreement on the transfer of banking data or the 'safe harbor' programme, which allows private companies to process in the united states personal data they have collected from their european users. this agreement has just been annulled by the luxembourg court, on the initiative of a simple austrian citizen and not of the commission, despite the repeated scandals which have revealed the assistance given by these companies to the nsa in its widespread espionage operation. this important decision of the court is largely symbolic. for it to be really effective, the us would have to stop putting its national security above all other considerations, and not just accepting to give europeans a right of appeal similar to that of their own nationals. the commission has neither the will nor the courage: it is a ban on transfers that must be pursued, not this wave of 'safe harbor 2' that we are going to have in 2016.
griesbeck (eldr), in writing. - (sv) the commission has already taken a number of measures to ‒ while i welcome the adoption of this strong resolution by the european parliament on combating mass surveillance of european citizens, the resolution denounces the mass surveillance programmes of the intelligence services, insists on the fundamental right of european citizens to privacy, and reiterates our calls for the suspension of safe harbor and tftp. i am very sorry, however, that my amendment and the paragraph asking the european commission to assess the french law on intelligence in the light of the european treaties and the european charter of fundamental rights were rejected, following a shocking manoeuvre by the french socialists.
in writing. ‒ in june 2013, edward snowden's revelations about the mass electronic surveillance to which european citizens were exposed, were a shock to europe. parliament had reacted swiftly by launching an inquiry to assess the extent of the violation of citizens' rights and to make recommendations accordingly. it is clear that a year and a half later, too little has been done. that is why i supported this follow-up resolution proposed by my british colleague, claude moraes, to call - once again - on the commission to take the necessary steps immediately to ensure that all personal data transferred to the united states is subject to an effective level of protection. this resolution takes on a very special significance with the recent judgment in the schrems case invalidating the commission's decision on the 'safe zone' regime for data transfers to the united states. this decision only confirms the longstanding position of parliament. the commission will have to consider not only the impact of this judgment but also the possible alternatives. a meeting has been set with the commission at the end of 2015, let us hope that parliament's demands will not be left unanswered this time...
in writing. ‒ while i share the outrage at the practices that have been revealed regarding the mass surveillance of citizens' communications by the us nsa, i do not, however, subscribe to all the words in this resolution. a left bloc, which has a majority in the parliamentary committee responsible for these matters, has succeeded in getting very controversial provisions passed which are based on personal convictions and ideologies. unlike these members, i do not believe that individual freedom should be systematically opposed to the security imperative. on the contrary, i see the flowering of liberties in a safe space. it is in this spirit that i supported the adoption in france of the law on intelligence which is regularly attacked in this resolution. similarly, how does the threat of blocking the budgetary resources of the european commission if it does not implement the recommendations of parliament to the letter help to clarify what has happened? why suspend the exchange of information with the united states on terrorist financing, a vital tool for identifying terrorists? for all these reasons, i voted against the follow-up resolution to the march 2014 resolution.
in writing. ‒ this text looks back at the nsa case and proposes an overall increase in privacy protection; it denounced the methods of data collection and the drift of states to turn citizens into potential criminals, and called on the member states to drop all prosecutions against edward snowden and to provide him with political asylum. the report also stresses the importance of setting up control bodies at member state level to ensure that special services do not go beyond their role by collecting data on individuals. the report also calls for the introduction of a european data protection system. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution following up the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on the electronic mass surveillance of citizens of the european union. the text accused the us and its member states of multiple crimes and called for the suspension of eu-us agreements on the monitoring of terrorist financing, which is essential for identifying the perpetrators of attacks, such as the 2013 boston bombings. in addition, some wanted to add topics that do not fit the resolution's starting point, the security of european citizens, such as the european union's trade agreements. a subject of such major concern to our fellow citizens deserved a more serious text. the text was adopted, and i regret that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the mass electronic surveillance of eu citizens, because it advocates european solutions that undermine the sovereignty of the member states. it is not for the european parliament (or the european commission) to interfere in the internal affairs of the member states. that said, i supported some amendments and some important parts of the resolution which i share the philosophy of, in particular paragraph 47, which warns against the culture of mass surveillance in which every citizen is considered a potential suspect. i also voted for recital e, which stresses 'the targeted surveillance of the communications of the last three presidents of the french republic, french ministers and the french ambassador to the united states; that this large-scale strategic and economic espionage carried out by the nsa over the last ten years has targeted all the structures of the french state as well as the main french companies'.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it undermines the sovereignty of states under the pretext of ensuring the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ a year and a half ago, shortly after edward snowden's revelations about large-scale spying across the atlantic, the european parliament officially began investigating the mass surveillance of european citizens. a parliament resolution - with no influence - later, the moraes report found that surveillance remains massive on our continent, and is rarely subject to any political or legal control. the european commission and the member states have made insufficient progress. so i welcome the fact that the report acknowledges the need to do more to protect the personal data of european citizens. the moraes report welcomes the judgment of the court of justice of the european union on 6 october, which annulled the european commission's decision to introduce a safe harbour system for data transfers to the united states. it also calls on the twenty-eight to drop all prosecutions against edward snowden and to offer him protection. in line with my fight for the protection of citizens' personal data in trade agreements (including ttip and tisa), i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. this report looks at the mass surveillance scandals that have plagued the us intelligence community, particularly the nsa. the text generally supports the protection of privacy: it denounces the methods of data collection and the drift of the states to make citizens potential criminals, it calls on the member states to abandon all prosecutions against edward snowden and to provide him with political asylum. the report also stresses the importance of setting up control bodies at member state level to ensure that special services do not go beyond their role by carrying out mass data collection. the report also calls for the introduction of a european data protection system. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. this follow-up motion for a resolution on the electronic mass surveillance of citizens takes stock of the lack of action taken by the european commission, other eu institutions and member states to address widespread surveillance. while some aspects of this resolution are in the right direction (stopping the prosecution of snowden, or stopping the transfer of data to the us), the text is excessively european and advocates solutions that undermine the sovereignty of the member states, such as the invitation to the commission to take some member states to court, to make recommendations to the member states (as if the commission were in a better position) etc. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this follow-up motion for a resolution on the electronic mass surveillance of citizens takes stock of the lack of action taken by the european commission, other eu institutions and member states to address widespread surveillance. while some aspects of this resolution are in the right direction (stopping the prosecution of snowden, or stopping the transfer of data to the us), the text is excessively european and advocates solutions that undermine the sovereignty of the member states, such as the invitation to the commission to take some member states to court, to make recommendations to the member states (as if the commission were the best placed), etc. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. edward snowden's revelations about the nsa's mass surveillance have created a collective awareness around the world. a real electric shock, making us take action to protect our privacy. in its resolution of 12 march 2014, the european parliament called for a ban on mass surveillance activities. the follow-up resolution adopted today reminds member states and the commission of their responsibilities to protect the personal data of europeans. i voted in favour of this important text, which is consistent with my convictions. the resolution assesses whether the recommendations made in 2014 have been followed. there are, of course, some positive aspects. in particular, the data protection package should be adopted soon, which is an undeniable step forward for european citizens. the court of justice just overturned the safe harbour decision, confirming our concerns about this device. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. member states and the commission must now take all necessary measures to protect fundamental rights in the digital age.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of action by states and the commission, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling for the implementation by the commission and states of concrete measures to combat mass surveillance and the ep recommendations adopted in march 2014, following edward snowden's revelations of the nsa mass surveillance scandal. the resolution condemns the inaction of the european institutions and warns against decisions to collect personal data on a widespread and massive scale, which threatens the fundamental right to privacy and the protection of personal data in the fight against terrorism and crime. the resolution also expresses concern at the adoption or proposed enactment of intelligence laws in many member states which extend the surveillance capabilities of intelligence services. i deeply regret that the vote has removed the part of the french law which is particularly offensive to civil liberties. the vote improved the resolution and rejected attempts by the european right to weaken the text. i voted in favour of this text, which shows that rights and freedoms are still under threat.
in writing. ‒ the european semester is an instrument for the commission to steer the economic policies of the countries of the union. the aim is to harmonize the conditions for growth and the maintenance of public finances that meet the convergence criteria. it therefore constitutes a threat to the budgetary sovereignty of the member states. i therefore voted against this report which promotes the european semester.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contained the idea of a treasury for the euro area. the european semester is a laudable instrument which must be treated more seriously and with discipline by the european authorities.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the implementation of the european semester, which aims to put the budget of the member states under the benevolent control of the european commission and the council of ministers. it is thus aimed at ensuring the maintenance of public finances according to criteria which are not justified by any serious economic study. thus, a country that does not meet the arbitrarily established criteria will have to follow the commission's recommendations. this report, which is far too vague, does not in any way point to another economic policy but, on the contrary, promotes ultra-liberal reforms or the proposal for own fiscal resources for the eu. i cannot vote for this text because the european semester is the austerity counterpart to the single currency and the report is sympathetic to it.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes the european parliament's opinion on the 2015 priorities of the european semester. the european semester plays a key role in coordinating the economic and budgetary policies of the member states with a view to stimulating growth and investment. the current economic situation in the european union is characterised by stagnating gdp (stable in the euro area and marked by a 0.2% increase in the eu-28 in the second quarter of 2014), remarkably low inflation (0.3% in august 2014) and a record unemployment rate of 11.5% in the euro area and 10.2% in the eu-28 in july 2014. the report highlights a series of priorities focusing on modernising economies, structural labour market reforms, the banking union, immigration policy, energy policy and increasing sources of finance for smes. however, the report mentions objectives which are outside the competence of the european union, for example on the level of wages, which is why i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the european semester shows that most of the recommendations made by the european commission to the member states are not implemented. the operation of the semester must therefore be improved. national parliaments should be more involved in the development of socioeconomic reforms. the recommendations should be more restrictive. finally, it is essential to assess the social impacts well in advance. that is the sense in which the european parliament's report should have been taken.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned the european semester for economic policy coordination and its implementation of the priorities for 2015. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external borders is based on the principle of subsidiarity. while criticising the reduction in the retirement age, he said he was in favour of own resources for the european union. as a tool of the economic tutelage imposed on us by brussels, this european semester seeks to strengthen its power over our sovereign policies. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague dariusz rosati on the country-specific priorities for economic policies in the context of the european semester. the report focused on structural reforms and improving competitiveness while consolidating public finances. the text was not adopted, which i regret.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. the european semester remains the instrument used by the european commission to steer the economic policies of the countries of the union. as such, it is a growing threat to sovereignty through country-specific recommendations, which are road maps for national governments. the rosati report is balanced in its assessment of the economic situation, but in reality it is often unobjective in its assessment of the severity of the indicators. as is often the case with compromises, it mixes a few pertinent observations with unacceptable considerations. it promotes the juncker plan, ultra-liberal-inspired structural reforms (particularly in the labour market) and advocates own resources for the eu. as a corollary of the single currency in its present form, and as a vehicle for a certain brussels oversight of national economic policies, it is therefore not possible to support the concept of the european semester. the rosati report contains relevant criticisms, but overall it presents too much evidence in favour of strengthening this mechanism to be approved.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it accentuates the ultra-liberal drift of eu economic policy. it was rejected by a very large majority, which is a divine surprise.
in writing. this report concerns the establishment of the european semester, which is a europeanist ceremony designed to put the budget of the member states under the benevolent supervision of the european commission and the council of ministers. it is thus aimed at ensuring the maintenance of public finances according to criteria which are not justified by any serious economic study. thus, a country which does not respect the arbitrarily established criteria will have to follow the commission's recommendations (which are not the advice of friends) which are not distinguished by their originality since they are aimed at increasing deregulation. the report is a complete waste of time and remains vague except for the promotion of ultra-liberal reforms or the proposal for own fiscal resources for the eu. i cannot vote for this text because the european semester is the austerity counterpart to the single currency and the report is sympathetic to it. i therefore voted against.
in writing. i opposed this report which seeks to show the european parliament's support for the policies relating to the european semester. the european semester is dedicated to a european liberalism which wants ever more budgetary austerity, a lighter social burden and labour market reforms in order to strive towards growth which has become a priority on solidarity and cohesion policies. although the report calls for greater attention to the social impact of austerity policies, it does not call into question the widespread use of this model in eu policies.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the establishment of the european semester, which is a europeanist ceremony aimed at placing the budget of the member states under the benevolent supervision of the european commission and the council of ministers. it is thus aimed at ensuring the maintenance of public finances according to criteria which are not justified by any serious economic study. thus, a country which does not comply with the arbitrarily established criteria will have to follow the recommendations of the commission (which are not the advice of friends) which are not distinguished by their originality since they are aimed at increasing deregulation. the report is a complete waste of time and remains vague except for the promotion of ultra-liberal reforms or the proposal for own fiscal resources for the eu. i cannot vote for this text because the european semester is the austerity counterpart to the single currency and the report is sympathetic to it. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report on the european semester for policy coordination, which was put to the vote by meps on 29 october, made several proposals to further coordinate the economic and structural policies of the eu member states. the main issues were partly to stimulate investment and support employment while continuing to clean up public accounts. despite the commendable objective of this report, it lacked a profound relevance and consistency as regards the actions to be taken. that is why i voted against this text, which was also overwhelmingly rejected by the european parliament (only 91 votes in favour, 409 against and 131 abstentions).
in writing. ‒ this text gives too many powers to the european commission and lacks realistic solutions. as usual, there are many wishful thinking and few concrete actions for the workers. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i advocate european mobility and learning to respond to the unemployment scandal in europe.
in writing. ‒ with this recommendation, the council wants to make it a systematic requirement for each longterm unemployed person to have an individual assessment and an integration agreement. the idea of organising this approach seems to be approved by all, but its implementation raises some questions: lack of financial and human resources, difficulty in making appropriate proposals for employment or training and above all how to encourage the unemployed to take an interest in the contract system. for the time being, this arrangement is non-binding and does not involve additional financial resources. i think that the revenue mentioned as usual will not have an impact on the unemployment situation beyond the mere announcement effect. the gap between the scale of the phenomenon and the weakness of the resources deployed will do the rest. the european semester continues to shape an economic framework that is detached from social concerns, and massive job losses continue throughout europe. it is clear that the longterm unemployed must be reintegrated, but again the union does not make any concrete proposals; i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for a recommendation because once again the european union does not provide any concrete solutions to the integration of the longterm unemployed, which is a key issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market. the scourge of unemployment affects all the member states of the union. since the 2008 crisis, the number of unemployed has increased significantly. we must put in place a european strategy to tackle the problem of longterm unemployment in the european union. social policy remains a national competence. however, we must be open to our neighbours and share our good practices in this area. effective structures for the reintegration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market must be set up, which are both adapted to the specificities of the country's labour market and also tailored to the needs and skills of jobseekers.
in writing. ‒ this resolution addresses the multiple obstacles faced by the longterm unemployed, including poverty, skills erosion and health problems. long-term unemployment has doubled since 2007 due to the economic crisis and now accounts for half of total unemployment. more than 12 million people, or 5 per cent of the european union's working population, are longterm unemployed. in 2014, more than 60 percent of these unemployed had been out of work for at least two consecutive years. noting that the longterm unemployment rate remains high, while european labour markets are showing signs of recovery, i support this resolution calling on the member states to intervene without delay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market, although i doubt that a simple recommendation is enough to encourage member states to act. nevertheless, through this resolution we insist that this council recommendation should be addressed to all longterm unemployed, including those not registered with the public employment services and those unemployed for less than 18 months (between 12 and 18 months). the resolution also stresses the importance of aligning actions for the longterm unemployed with those for the shortterm unemployed and the young unemployed. so, through this vote, we are proposing a single point of contact to facilitate the support of the unemployed.
in writing. ‒ on thursday 29 october, i voted in favour of a european commission proposal to introduce three concrete measures in the member states to facilitate the reintegration of long-term unemployed (over one year) into the labour market. the commission proposes, first, to facilitate the registration of longterm unemployed with the employment services, then to offer an individual assessment to determine their needs and potential and finally to put in place vocational integration agreements between the unemployed and public employment services (these are personalised action plans to ensure return to employment). i welcome these measures which are intended to significantly improve the services offered to this category of unemployed to help them get back to work quickly. today, almost 12 million people in europe have been unemployed for more than a year. this represents half the total number of unemployed in europe. in france, almost half of the unemployed are affected. it is therefore this category which must become a priority for the european union, because the longer the period of unemployment, the more difficult it is to return to work.
in writing. ‒ due to the economic crisis, longterm unemployment has doubled since 2007 and now accounts for half of total unemployment in the eu. it affects 12.1 million people, 61% of whom have been unemployed for more than two years. these alarming figures call for targeted action on longterm unemployment. that is why i supported this resolution of parliament which echoes the recent commission proposal on the subject. the acute nature of the problem arises from the fact that the longer the period of unemployment, the more difficult it is to return to work. among the measures envisaged, we advocate more active registration of the longterm unemployed. we also want to ensure that jobseekers who have been unemployed for more than 12 months receive individual support. they should also be offered a vocational integration agreement before they reach 18 months of unemployment, with a concrete and personalised plan for their return to the labour market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market. the aim of this recommendation is to provide guidance to member states to facilitate the return to employment of the longterm unemployed, in particular by strengthening personalised support. this category of unemployed people constitutes half of the unemployed in the european union, so it was essential to take concrete action to support them in their return to employment. the resolution was adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market, because this text gives too many powers to the european commission and does not provide enough realistic solutions. once again, it is a matter of many wishes and few actions. paragraph 13 of the resolution calls for strict monitoring of parliament's recommendation, including through the european semester, which i do not believe is effective or legitimate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. the enf group tabled a number of amendments, to no avail, which resulted in a profoundly europeanist text, calling for more and more europe to overcome the difficulties of the crisis. we recognize the need to reintegrate the unemployed into the labour market and we welcome the commission's interest in this, but as always, the eu is taking the problem in reverse. we keep saying it, but the best way to reintegrate the unemployed is to create jobs, and this can only be done by supporting enterprises and job creation, by fighting unfair competition from low-cost countries and social dumping.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market aims to make it systematic to provide for an individual assessment and an agreement on integration into employment for each longterm unemployed person. however, it is to suggest that the longterm unemployed are unemployed only by choice or because of a lack of competence or training. however, the vast majority of the 2.4 million french long-term unemployed are unemployed due to the national output deficit, which reached 8% compared to 2007. the solution to this problem lies in 'more and more europe'. we cannot continue to wipe away the harmful effects of brussels policies with cosmetic rust that gives good conscience to the good european souls. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal to put in place three concrete measures in the member states to facilitate the reintegration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market. the commission proposes firstly to facilitate the registration of longterm unemployed with the employment services, then to offer an individual assessment to determine their needs and potential, and finally to set up vocational integration agreements between the unemployed and the public employment services. i welcome these proposals, which clearly show the importance which the commission attaches to the fight against unemployment.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on the council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market aims to make it systematic to provide for an individual assessment and an integration agreement for each longterm unemployed person. however, it is to suggest that the longterm unemployed are unemployed only by choice or because of a lack of competence or training. however, the vast majority of the 2.4 million french long-term unemployed are unemployed due to the national output deficit, which reached 8% compared to 2007. the solution to this problem lies in 'more and more europe'. we cannot continue to wipe away the harmful effects of brussels policies with cosmetic rust that gives good conscience to the good european souls. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the post-crisis economic environment, the unemployment rate has risen sharply in the union and the long-term unemployed now represent 12.1 million people, or 5% of the union's active population. the european parliament approved a council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market. this text sets out certain priorities and proposes specific actions to guide the social and employment policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, more than 12 million workers, or 5% of the eu's labour force, were long-term unemployed and 62% had been out of work for at least two consecutive years. the consequences of longterm unemployment are significant and deleterious: increased household poverty, erosion of skills, higher incidence of health problems, increased risk of social exclusion, poverty and inequality. the council's objective is to increase the return to employment of the longterm unemployed. the specific objectives are to increase the coverage of registration and support for the longterm unemployed, to ensure continuity and coordination between the services concerned and to "increase the effectiveness of interventions aimed at both longterm unemployed and employers". the far-right group took advantage of this resolution to engage in a demagogic exercise of simplistic amendments. i finally abstained because, while i agree with these objectives to improve the rapid return to employment of the longterm unemployed, the recommendations of the council and the european parliament give priority to the competitiveness of enterprises and are part of the austerity measures and the european semester.
in writing. ‒ this text establishes a balanced community regulation. the idea is to model the framework for civil drones on what is already being done in terms of international regulations in the field of civil aviation. in order to ensure the safety of air traffic and the safety of the public, there is nothing to prevent the development of international rules in this case, since national airspace is constantly crossed by foreign aircraft. the report stresses that european regulations must strike a balance between ensuring the safety of individuals, the protection of data and privacy, and the development of this new sector. the report also stresses that all actors must be involved in the development of community rules: member states, the commission, the national authorities concerned, smes, commercial operators, law enforcement agencies, etc. finally, i would stress that this report does not in any way concern military drones, which must remain the exclusive responsibility of the member states. i therefore voted in favour of the foster report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to ensure that drones do not threaten public safety or privacy, as commercial services using drones take off and their recreational use becomes even more popular.
in writing. ‒ this report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in civil aviation is intended to regulate the use of drones in the civil sector. international regulations governing the use of civil drones are necessary to ensure the safety of air traffic and the general public. the rapporteur rightly believes that harmonisation at european level is a useful step in the process of developing global rules, but that eu legislation must be balanced, particularly with regard to data protection and privacy, which must be guaranteed without penalising smes producing drones. finally, the report notes that it is particularly important that all stakeholders cooperate and therefore it is essential that the commission is not in charge alone. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a matter of concern at a time when nuclear power stations or other sensitive buildings, such as religious schools, are being flown over by unidentified drones. the absence of national regulations leaves the door open for european legislation in this relatively new field. it should be balanced, neither too restrictive nor too liberal. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
in writing. ‒ unmanned aerial vehicles and drones are new technologies with a high potential for innovation and economic growth. the european union must adapt its market to this technological development by establishing rules that allow european entrepreneurs to be competitive in the field and that respect the privacy of citizens. the european economy will recover with technological innovation under the guidance of harmonised and relevant safety rules. civil drones have a considerable potential for job creation. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes a number of recommendations to make the european industry one of the world's leading players in the market for automated aircraft technology. this market raises new problems of safety, security and respect for the rights of citizens. the absence of harmonised regulations in europe and of validated technologies is the main obstacle to the opening up of this market. the report therefore calls for the introduction of a balanced regulatory framework recognised at international level, which would allow the sector to develop without imposing unnecessary constraints. it also draws attention to the importance of the general public's participation and the principle of user responsibility. i have supported this report because i believe that this market represents a real opportunity for job creation, innovation and economic growth in the years to come.
in writing. ‒ to enable a safer integration of drones into european airspace, it is imperative to have an ad hoc legislative framework. future rules will need to ensure privacy and data protection and be based on a risk assessment; we need to strike a balance between commercial development of civilian drones and the safety of property and people.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned the regulation of civil drones to ensure the safety of air traffic and the general public. the text thus proposes a balanced conciliation without penalising companies producing drones in excess. by not imposing too strict regulations while filling the legal vacuum created by the recent mass arrival of civil drones on the market, this report has found a middle ground. i voted in favour of this report because i want the use of these civilian drones to be regulated and i want to protect the industry in this sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is first and foremost necessary to establish a regulation for drones.
in writing. civilian drones have many uses, both economic and recreational. the control of such use is necessary to ensure the safety of air traffic, of vulnerable populations and areas, as well as the protection of data and privacy. for once, european harmonization is desirable, provided it is based on clear, proportionate rules and properly articulated with national and international rules. this is so as not to hinder the expansion of this very recent and particularly dynamic sector in france. i agree with ms foster's moderation, who rejects any regulatory rush and insists on the involvement of all stakeholders - including smes, law enforcement and civil society organisations - in the development of regulation. that is why i voted for his report.
in writing. ‒ the foster report sets out a balanced community regulation. the aim is to build civil drone regulation on what is already being done in terms of international regulations in the field of civil aviation. in order to ensure the safety of air traffic and the safety of the public, there is no reason why international rules should not be drawn up, since national airspace is constantly crossed by foreign aircraft. the text insists that european regulations should strike a balance between ensuring the safety of individuals, the protection of data and privacy and the development of this new sector. the report also stresses the need to involve all stakeholders in the development of community rules: member states, the commission, the national authorities concerned, smes, commercial operators, policymakers, etc. however, this report does not cover military drones, which should remain the exclusive responsibility of the member states. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jacqueline foster on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in civil aviation. this sector, which is promising in terms of jobs and innovation, suffers from a lack of european legislation. the legal vacuum, particularly in terms of protection and safety, is one of the main obstacles to the development of a leading industry in this field in europe. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the safe use of unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs) in civil aviation. as is already the case in civil aviation, international regulations governing the use of civil drones are necessary to ensure the safety of air traffic and the public. the report stresses that eu legislation should be balanced: neither too restrictive nor too liberal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. finally, it should be noted that the report emphasises the need for cooperation between all stakeholders in order to achieve the best possible legislation. it therefore advocates that discussions and debates take place between member states, the commission, national regulatory authorities, smes and commercial operators, as well as civil society organisations and law enforcement agencies. as this is a strategic sector (remember the drones flying over french nuclear power stations), it is very important that the commission is not the only one in charge of this dossier.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to regulate the use of civil drones, which is necessary to ensure the safety of air traffic and the general public. and it has the merit of recommending that the commission in brussels should consult with the member states.
in writing. - i voted for this report. it provides for the establishment of international regulations governing the use of civil drones, which are necessary measures to ensure the safety of air traffic and the general public. the author stresses the need for cooperation between all actors (member states, commission, national regulatory authorities, smes, commercial operators, civil society and law enforcement) in order to achieve a balanced text, neither too restrictive nor too liberal, which allows both to protect data and to respect privacy, without penalising drone manufacturers.
in writing. ‒ this text establishes a balanced community regulation. the idea is to model the framework for civil drones on what is already being done in terms of international regulations in the field of civil aviation. in order to ensure the safety of air traffic and the safety of the public, there is nothing to prevent the development of international rules in this case, since national airspace is constantly crossed by foreign aircraft. the report stresses that european regulations must be balanced in ensuring both the safety of individuals, the protection of data and privacy, and the development of this new sector. the report also stresses that all actors should be involved in the development of community rules: member states, the commission, the national authorities concerned, smes, commercial operators, law enforcement agencies, etc. finally, this report does not in any way concern military drones, the regulation of which must remain the exclusive responsibility of the member states. i therefore voted in favour of the foster report.
in writing. this report concerns the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in civil aviation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of drones in the civil sector is regulated in order to ensure the safety of air traffic and the general public. this report is to be welcomed as it advocates that discussions take place between the member states, the commission, the national regulatory authorities, smes. it does not therefore leave the commission alone in the decision-making process. in addition, the proposed legislative harmonization is neither too restrictive nor too liberal. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i am the epp rapporteur on this text, and i voted for it. the positions adopted by parliament on the future subject of drones strike a balance between the protection of citizens and the freedom of innovation for entrepreneurs. the eu must legislate on this urgently so that it can determine the standards that will apply worldwide in the future.
in writing. this own-initiative report proposes to lay the foundations for european regulation to authorize and develop the use and management of drones for commercial and civil purposes. despite the fact that these remotely piloted aircraft systems have very interesting interests, whether for scientific tasks (aerial thermography) or commercial tasks (air parcel delivery), these machines pose a real risk to the protection of privacy and security of citizens. the proliferation would make it difficult to control, and the drift we are experiencing across the atlantic urges us to be vigilant about its commercialisation. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in civil aviation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of drones in the civil sector is regulated in order to ensure the safety of air traffic and the general public. this report is to be welcomed as it advocates that discussions take place between the member states, the commission, the national regulatory authorities, smes. it does not therefore leave the commission alone in the decision-making process. in addition, the proposed legislative harmonization is neither too restrictive nor too liberal. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the civil aviation drone market has the potential to generate over eur 80 billion and create 100 000 jobs by 2025 in europe. european companies must maintain their position on the european and international market. in this context, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in civil aviation. the aim of this text is to encourage the development of the european market by supporting european businesses while ensuring that the security of european citizens is respected. as vice-president of the sky and space intergroup, i have campaigned for this report and i stress the need for european legislation if we are to support our european companies on european and world markets.
in writing. ‒ the drone industry is a growing sector, but it is evolving without a european-wide regulatory framework. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. that is why i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems in civil aviation, which aims to lay the foundations for harmonising european legislation in the drone sector in order to encourage the expansion of this market and ensure optimal control of uses, particularly cross-border, while guaranteeing the protection of privacy and security of individuals. however, i am in favour of risk-based regulation of drones, which takes care to distinguish between professional and recreational uses and which promotes european leadership.
in writing. ‒ the future european regulation will aim to address justified safety concerns but will also try to give this emerging sector the means to develop in a respectful environment for citizens and airspace. the report aims to ensure the traceability of all machines, but also of operators and owners as a prerequisite for any use. this is a good thing because we could see during the fly-by of the french nuclear power stations that we were unable to find the pilots. a registration system must be put in place to enable drones to be easily identified, even from a distance if possible. the terrorist risks raise fears of a real threat to the safety of france's nuclear fleet, which could cause an electrical blackout or even a major nuclear accident, as we were able to demonstrate in a letter to the french government... which remained unanswered. it is also planned to ensure better airworthiness for drones with a sharing of clear airspace. the main issue is to distinguish between recreational and professional uses and to give different permissions to their users.
in writing. ‒ originally developed for military purposes, drone technology is increasingly being applied for economic purposes. drones used in a professional context have a wide range of uses that may be developed in the future, including safety inspections and infrastructure control (railways, dams and power plants, etc.), natural disaster assessment, agriculture and parcel delivery in remote areas. the resolution adopted by a very large majority by the european parliament emphasises above all the support for the development of this new technology, which indeed has the potential for economic growth and hence for jobs. it stresses the importance of personal data protection and privacy but the proposed recommendations do not seem to me to be sufficiently binding to guarantee a truly safe use of drones. i therefore voted against this resolution which favours a market approach to the sector and does not offer sufficient protection.
in writing. ‒ this report is a first step towards european regulation of the tourism sector. the commission should therefore increase its staff responsible for tourism policy, report on the first measures taken in 2010 in this area, take account of future challenges (protection of the climate and the environment, digitalisation of the sector, accessibility, etc.) and promote transnational and pan-european tourism and develop marketing tools to this end. we believe that tourism does not need to be supervised from brussels, whose sole purpose is to make european nations disappear. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to develop new tools for promoting europe as a tourist destination.
in writing. ‒ i support this report in that it calls for the promotion of the european tourism industry. in view of the various economic crises which have occurred and/or are occurring in the countries of the union, tourism is and must remain more than ever a source of income for the states and the professionals in the sector. today, the tourism industry faces increased global competition, particularly from cheaper emerging countries that attract international tourists. in the face of such competition, europe must in fact exploit its comparative advantages, in particular its diversity of landscapes and its extraordinary cultural, artistic, gastronomic and historical wealth. i regret, however, that the european parliament is taking advantage of this report to give free rein to its obsession with comitology, which is costly and too often ineffective. why consider a european tourism agency, funds for a european year of tourism or a destination europe label? the european institutions are certainly having a very difficult time not giving in to the sirens of unbridled interventionism and the resulting confusion.
in writing. ‒ this de monte report is about new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism in europe and aims to encourage the european commission to develop a tourism offer at european level. i had tabled several amendments in committee on this subject, particularly on accessible tourism. the rapporteur regrets the commission's lack of willingness to strengthen the eu's tourism policy. we are always asking for 'more europe', as if more europe would bring more tourists (probably the opposite is true...). no, on the contrary, it is up to each member state to decide its tourism policy. the tourist sites are also affected by the growing insecurity caused by the free movement of people. in reality, this report is designed to smooth over national differences in order to promote europe, whereas i believe that europe is rich in its nations, cultures and histories. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ europe's tourist attraction is not that most of its countries belong to the european union. the european commission is not in the best position to make an objective assessment of the situation of tourism in europe, nor to propose a policy to boost it. we would prefer that this matter be dealt with by independent experts. such a study would undoubtedly show that the main obstacle to the development of tourism in europe is the increase in insecurity in the various tourist attractions. the question of heritage preservation must also be considered. the national wealth of the old continent deserves to be better highlighted, and that is why i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ europe is a very popular tourist destination in the rest of the world. the european culture, landscapes and cuisine attract foreign tourists to europe. the european tourism sector is highly developed and provides extremely important economic resources for the member states. it is therefore necessary to develop a strategy adapted to the specificities of this flourishing sector. the specificities of the tourism sector must be taken into account in the related regulations which have an impact on the sector, such as competition, transport and internal market policies. the other policies of the union must not hinder the growth of european tourism but, on the contrary, help it to grow. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to promote tourism in europe by ensuring better coordination with sectors directly or indirectly concerned, such as transport, regional and rural development, the internal market, or consumer law. the report proposes a series of recommendations to develop a european brand strategy and promote tourist destinations in europe in a coordinated way. it also advocates the development of sustainable and responsible tourism, as well as the sharing economy and digitalisation. the european union's objective is to develop an attractive pan-european and transnational tourism offer in the face of international competition. in this context, cultural routes, heritage, gastronomy, business tourism, activity and adventure tourism, health and well-being tourism, education and religious tourism are among the pan-european themes that the union wishes to promote internationally. i believe that the tourism sector, which already represents 10% of the european economy, is growing and that its expansion must be supported, and i therefore voted in favour of this report, which aims to promote our european assets even further.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the de monte report on new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism in europe. as tourism is a key sector of the european economy, i believe it is essential to improve coordination between member states, regional and local authorities and financial institutions. similarly, through this report, we are encouraging synergies between the public and private tourism sectors. the resolution will also allow member states to cooperate in the creation of transnational thematic routes to highlight the tourist assets of certain destinations. finally, through this vote, we are encouraging the tourist experience that all citizens are now seeking.
in writing. ‒ this report dealt with the promotion and new challenges of tourism in europe. tourism is an important sector of the union's economy, and unfortunately it is not being dealt with in a relevant way here. while the text is a diatribe on trends such as "responsible tourism" or even "ecological and sustainable tourism", it only anecdotally addresses the problem of insecurity in major tourist destinations. by also proposing to increase the staff of the european commission responsible for tourism, this report tries to make it seem that more europe, again and again, is the solution to all ills. i voted against this report because i am attached to the specific nature of the countries of european civilization and not to the promotion of tourism which ignores frontiers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it marginalises europe's cultural and historical heritage.
in writing. ‒ this text paves the way for european regulation of the tourism sector. the commission is therefore asked to start by increasing its staff responsible for tourism policy, to report on the first measures taken in this area in 2010, to take account of future challenges (protection of the climate and the environment, digitalisation of the sector, accessibility, etc.) or to promote transnational and pan-european tourism and to develop marketing tools in this respect. the position of our party is that tourism does not need to be supervised from brussels whose sole purpose is to make european nations disappear. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague isabella de monte on new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism in europe. tourism is at the crossroads of many issues in different european policies. the aim is therefore to ensure that the transversal challenges of tourism policy are taken into account as much as possible. the report aims to focus on a brand strategy for european tourism against global competition, as well as on supporting digital offerings and preserving biodiversity. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism in europe, because it calls for more european commission intervention in the tourism sector, as well as an increase in the european union budget in this area. paragraph 19 calls on the commission to consider the creation of a european tourism agency. the text also calls for a relaxation of the policy on tourist visas, as if the problems were not already acute enough.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to increase the interference of the brussels commission in the tourism sector. i believe that france - the tourist country par excellence - has everything to lose. the french know better than the eurocrats what is good for the tourist attraction of their country!
in writing. - i voted against this report. the enf group had proposed an alternative resolution which, unsurprisingly, was rejected. the report as a whole is not conclusive: despite what the rapporteur says, the value of promoting europe 'as a whole' is not very well understood, and no serious study has been carried out to justify its effectiveness. another negative point is that the report mentions only very, very briefly the problems related to insecurity in tourist cities, or the negative impact of the presence of migrants. we're not convinced.
in writing. ‒ this report is a first step towards european regulation of the tourism sector. the commission should therefore increase its staff responsible for tourism policy, report on the first measures taken in 2010 in this area, take account of future challenges (protection of the climate and the environment, digitalisation of the sector, accessibility, etc.) and promote transnational and pan-european tourism and develop marketing tools to this end. tourism does not need to be supervised from brussels, whose sole purpose is to make european nations disappear. the member therefore voted against the text.
in writing. this de monte report deals with new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism in europe and aims to encourage the european commission to develop a tourism offer at european level. the rapporteur regrets the commission's lack of willingness to strengthen the eu's tourism policy. we are also entitled to the eternal "more europe", as if more europe would bring more tourists (probably the opposite is true...). it is up to each member state to decide its tourism policy. in addition, tourist sites are being hit by growing insecurity, to which absolute freedom of movement in the eu is no stranger. in short, this report aims to smooth out national differences in order to promote europe. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ european tourism policy must be strengthened: tourism is a source of non-delocatable jobs and growth for the whole continent. we must indeed clarify the supply of labels and address the challenges posed by new players in this sector.
in writing. this report proposes to harmonise the national tourism policies of the member states by seeking synergies to enhance european heritage. the commission is to be given the task of drawing up a series of joint actions to create a 'brand europe'. the report includes paragraphs calling on the commission and the member states to take specific measures concerning the outermost regions and recognises the fragility and dependence of these regions on the tourist sector. i am in favour of a pooling of forces between member states to enhance european tourism. however, i regret that this approach, which is entrusted to the commission, is subject to a liberal and competitive logic, thus giving priority to the market value of tourism. for these reasons, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ this de monte report is about new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism in europe and aims to encourage the european commission to develop a tourism offer at european level. the rapporteur regrets the commission's lack of willingness to strengthen the eu's tourism policy. we are also entitled to the eternal "more europe", as if more europe would bring more tourists (probably the opposite is true...). it is up to each member state to decide its tourism policy. in addition, tourist sites are being hit by growing insecurity, to which absolute freedom of movement in the eu is no stranger. in short, this report aims to smooth out national differences in order to promote europe. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on new challenges and concepts for the promotion of tourism in europe. it is important to promote the development of environmentally friendly tourism while encouraging the development of our tourism businesses.
in writing. ‒ tourism is one of the most dynamic sectors of activity in europe, due to the cultural diversity that exists in the different countries of the european union, the result of multiple histories and geographies. however, the sector needs to modernise in order to meet the new challenges ahead. firstly, emerging countries are increasingly competing with the old continent, in particular because of much lower costs. in addition, the sector must adapt to changing consumer behaviour and profiles, primarily due to the development of the collaborative economy and the ageing of the population. finally, the tourism industry must take account of increasingly stringent sustainability requirements. i therefore voted in favour of the own-initiative report on new challenges and concepts for promoting tourism in europe, which aims in particular to take measures at eu level, such as the creation of the destination europe label and the improvement of accessibility in transport. finally, the strengthening of european passenger rights will be a decisive step in the development of passenger traffic in europe by increasing confidence in the services offered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the promotion of tourism in europe. it should be remembered that europe is the world's leading tourist destination, making tourism a key sector of the european economy. it has a major impact on economic growth, employment and social developments and can therefore provide considerable leverage in the context of the current economic crisis. it is clear that the sector faces many challenges such as the digitisation of distribution channels, the development of the sharing economy, the ageing of the population and increasing competition from cheaper destinations in emerging countries. this report, which i supported, makes a very useful call for a new strategy for tourism in the union. the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the idea is also to promote sustainable, responsible and environmentally friendly tourism. finally, the growth of the sharing economy and the digitalisation of the european tourism market must be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ the oral question which gave rise to this motion for a resolution sought the commission's opinion on a new system of air traffic control monitoring using satellites (the 'automatic dependent surveillance broadcast'). this system is more efficient in many ways than current ground systems that use radar technology. however, problems persist and trials are under way in several member states of the european union, including france. the european parliament called on the commission to take up this matter and to introduce specific regulations for this system. this haste is unjustified, especially since there is an international civil aviation organisation responsible for ensuring that states coordinate their actions on aviation safety. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution aims to develop technology using satellites to provide global tracking of aircraft in flight in remote areas where ground systems are inadequate. the ads-b is an instrument that would replace the current radar system and allows aircraft to be identified and its precise position to be known. however, technical problems remain, since aircraft with this system will not be able to see aircraft without it. furthermore, doubts remain about its computer security. nevertheless, it is essential that the member states give a definitive opinion on this system since it has been the subject of experiments in france in particular. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on member states to increase the use of satellite technology for aircraft tracking and assistance in locating aircraft in distress. the tragedies of malaysia airlines flight 370 and air france flight 447 have indeed highlighted the weaknesses of current air navigation systems. currently, only 30% of the world's airspace is covered by satellites, making search and rescue efforts in the event of abnormal aircraft behaviour or accidents significantly more difficult. parliament proposed that a specific radio frequency be allocated to these monitoring satellites and called on the european commission to promote this system in view of the world radiocommunication conference (wrc-15) in geneva in november. i have voted in favour of the resolution, considering that air safety is a priority in the light of the development of air traffic, the safety of citizens and the terrorist threat.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution concerned the development of technology using satellites to track aircraft in flight on a global scale. while the oral question asked only for the commission's opinion on this subject, the motion for a resolution gives the commission the power to set up such a system. in addition to the necessarily very high cost, this system, which does not seem to be a priority, has many disadvantages. so by digitizing the flight data of airplanes, this system opens the door to a lot of bugs, hacking, and manipulation of information of all kinds, both by terrorists and by unscrupulous interests. while conventional transponders and radar systems have been functioning perfectly well for over half a century, this measure does not seem to be appropriate. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is aimed at improving aviation safety.
in writing. technology that not only tracks aircraft in flight in areas not or poorly covered by radar, but also enhances aviation safety looks promising. unfortunately, we also have to think about the facilities for finding aircraft that have been damaged at sea or that have been lost. what is less important is to ask the commission to intervene at this stage. this technology is still in the experimental stage, particularly in france, and it has many shortcomings. in particular, security gaps, as hackers claim to be able to obtain flight data, including passenger data, and believe it is largely feasible to generate ghost tracks or, on the contrary, to hide illegal flights, to blur signals, etc. as with all "communication" technologies, there is also the flip side of the coin: potential for malicious or intrusive use. it is first up to the national authorities and the international civil aviation organisation to decide on the feasibility, viability and safety of this new surveillance system before brussels intervenes.
in writing. ‒ the origin of this motion for a resolution is an oral question asking the commission for its opinion on a new system of air traffic control monitoring using satellites (the 'automatic dependent surveillance broadcast'). this system is more efficient in many ways than current ground systems that use radar technology. however, problems persist and trials are under way in several member states, starting with france. the european parliament has nevertheless asked the commission to take up this matter and to put in place a specific regulation for this system. this haste is unjustified, especially since there is an international civil aviation organisation responsible for ensuring that states coordinate their actions on aviation safety. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by my colleague michel cramer which supports the commission's work to set up a global flight tracking system. the establishment of the necessary satellite technology must not be restricted by the lack of frequency allocation, as this motion for a resolution stresses. the motion for a resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the development of technology using satellites to track aircraft in flight on a global scale. while the oral question merely sought the opinion of the european commission on a new satellite air traffic control system, the motion for a resolution gives the commission the power to set up such a system. even though tests are being carried out in several member states, including france, and there is an international civil aviation organisation responsible for ensuring that there is proper coordination between states in the field of safety, it is not desirable for the commission to take over this matter.
in writing. ‒ the oral question which gave rise to this motion for a resolution sought the commission's opinion on a new system of air traffic control monitoring using satellites (the 'automatic dependent surveillance broadcast'). this system is more efficient in many ways than current ground systems that use radar technology. however, problems persist and trials are under way in several member states of the european union, including france. the european parliament called on the commission to take up this matter and to introduce specific regulations for this system. this haste is unjustified, especially since there is an international civil aviation organisation responsible for ensuring that there is proper coordination between states in the field of aviation safety. i therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. this motion for a resolution aims to develop technology using satellites to provide global tracking of aircraft in flight in remote areas where ground systems are inadequate. the ads-b is an instrument that would replace the current radar system and would allow aircraft to be identified and their precise position to be known. however, technical problems remain, since aircraft with this system will not be able to see aircraft without it. furthermore, doubts remain about its computer security. nevertheless, it is essential that the member states give a definitive opinion on this system since it has been the subject of experiments in france in particular. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution aims to develop technology using satellites to provide global tracking of aircraft in flight in remote areas where ground systems are inadequate. the ads-b is an instrument that would replace the current radar system and would allow aircraft to be identified and their precise position to be known. however, technical problems remain, since aircraft with this system will not be able to see aircraft without it. furthermore, doubts remain about its computer security. nevertheless, it is essential that the member states give a definitive opinion on this system since it has been the subject of experiments in france in particular. so i decided to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ in transport, safety must be the first priority, and i see that there are gaps in the traceability of civil aircraft in the global skies. just look at the case of flight mh370, which disappeared in march 2014 and is still missing despite the technology and the many experts deployed. this situation is intolerable, since the difficulties in finding the crashed aircraft greatly reduce the chances of finding the victims alive. today, only 30 percent of airspace is covered by a flight tracking system. i therefore voted in favour of a resolution following an oral question by the chairman of the committee on transport and tourism on the future development of satellite technology for the establishment of flight tracking systems on a global scale. the ads-b system in question would not only increase the safety of world aviation but also improve traffic regulation and thus reduce infrastructure costs.
mr president, commissioner, in your communication of 27 october you said that it is the results that matter, not the good intentions. let's see what you got! you want to maintain trust in the schengen area, but it has collapsed under the pressure of migration: borders are reappearing everywhere. you want to put people back to work, but you're the one who's keeping them out of work with your ultra-liberal policies. you want to protect public health, but you give in to the lobbyists who are spreading endocrine disruptors. you want to reconcile the economic with the social, but you do the opposite by selling your soul to the most savage financial capitalism. you want to ensure the survival of europe, and there, rest assured, europe will survive, but it will be without you, commissioner, because it will be the europe of nations.
mr president, i am sorry that mr ferber has left, because i would have liked to reassure him about the state of the french economy and to question him about his assessment of the spanish economy - which mr zalba has just described - where his political friend, mr rajoy, obviously had to benefit from complicity in order not to be reminded of the situation of his economy, in the light of this famous stability pact. mr vice-president, you are not presenting the annual growth review today, so it is time to send you some messages, including the following: in principle, you will present the euro area recommendation; we want to make it a tool for macroeconomic debate between policy-makers before the spring european council. do not make it a statistical tool to conduct no political debate and simply to strengthen the enforcement of rules in deficit states. we want a tool that will enable us to organise the real economic policy debate we need, one that will enable us to examine the situation in terms of investment in the euro area, the situation in terms of convergence between economies, the situation in terms of the fight against fiscal dumping and the capacity to bring about real fiscal harmonisation within the european union. i ask you, mr vice-president, to conduct this debate within the framework of the document you will be presenting to us next week.
in writing. this debate on growth and the 2016 package of measures to achieve it in europe via the european semester is just another mirage, with the foreknowledge that the proposed solutions will not change anything. austerity, mass immigration, ultra-liberalism, the single currency and submission to finance have ruined the european union and none of these policies challenges these tenets. apart from this debate, i would like to express my indignation at the fact that the european parliament has authorized a plenary sitting in brussels on 11 november which is contrary to its principles of respect for national holidays. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. one author said that 'those who know the past are best able to build the future', and it seems that today the union is forgetting its history very quickly.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, aviation is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases of all modes of transport. for each passenger and each kilometre travelled, this mode of transport is three times more harmful to the climate than the car. imagine that a round trip from london to new york generates about as many greenhouse gases as one person needs to heat themselves for a year. and yet, strangely enough, this transport is exempt from taxes: no tax on kerosene or no or little vat for cross-border flights. it's simple, airlines are the champions of the tax break. we're stepping on the head! is it right that kerosene is the only fossil fuel that is not taxed? and why are trains overtaxed, while air travel is not, or so little? the result, since 1990, is that as the price of the airline ticket has gone down, emissions from this sector have gone up by 110%, and they could even triple by 2050 and take us well beyond the 2°c of global warming. with less than a month to go until cop 21, we must call it a day. let us tax kerosene like other fuels and end the minimum vat in the aviation sector. the other challenge is social. the airline industry has become an economic jungle where all sorts of things are allowed: zero-hour contracts, fake freelancers, letterbox companies. employees must have rights guaranteed by european legislation. mrs. bulc, i trust you with this. you told us last june that you would not look the other way on this matter. so let us do something about it, and put an end to social dumping and tax dumping in the airline industry, which are always to the detriment of employees. look at regulation (ec) no 868/2004, which was never implemented to combat unfair pricing practices. let us finally put airlines like ryanair, norwegian airlines and others on a footing by forcing them to respect the law. the regulation must also enable us to combat unfair competition from gulf companies. qatar, saudi arabia and the united arab emirates are giving their airlines tens of billions of euros in state aid to gain a foothold in the airline market. how do you want european companies to follow suit? new rules are needed to combat state aid and unfair pricing practices that distort competition. so you see, colleagues, we are faced with three challenges when we talk about aviation: the climate challenge, the social challenge and the international challenge. we have to get them out today. the epp resolution does not answer this question at all, but the ecologists' resolution provides concrete solutions. if we do not, the planet, the workers and the consumers will once again pay the price.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i should like to say in the preamble that i am rather cautious about the single european sky. the best intentions in the world may well be there, but i fear that under the pretext of simplifying the operation of european civil aviation, we will end up with a gas factory, which is oversized and lacks great flexibility. the resolution we are proposing to the commission is interesting in several respects. first of all, on security, and of course we are always in favour of increased security in all areas. the specific nature of civil aviation - which i know well from having worked for 35 years at air france - requires that safety requirements be as high as possible. it is high time that the civil aviation authorities took measures, for example, to provide medical care for the crew after the germanwings tragedy. i am glad that the joint motion for a resolution calls for support for the competitiveness of european airlines, because we cannot just stand by and watch our historic national airlines, which are part of our country's heritage and influence, go down. of course, efforts must be made by all, including the employees, but our companies will not survive unless they are finally put on an equal footing with their competitors, particularly the companies of the gulf countries and turkey. the latter are heavily subsidised - as has been said - by their governments, not to mention indirect aid, such as exemption from social security contributions, virtually free fuel or exemptions from airport taxes, all of which are a heavy burden on european airlines and which cannot be offset by any aid, since the commission prohibits them in the name of competition. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you are not following this logic. by recommending that the commission accelerate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, you will inevitably increase the already heavy burden on our airlines and thus penalise our customers, since the price of the air ticket will inevitably be increased again by one or more taxes.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution, which we support, shows you how much hope and impatience parliament has for a sector which has been called important. nevertheless, i still have a number of concerns about passenger rights, time slots and the single sky, for example, because the council remains bent on defending sovereignty and corporatism. he's blocked the legislation from moving forward. will the new aviation package help the member states to move forward? my second question is this: at a time when we are giving new responsibilities to the european aviation safety agency, is it reasonable for the commission, like the council, to propose to reduce its budgetary and human resources? finally, participation in the growth of the aviation industry has been a great lever for us, following a movement of concentration of significant efforts in research and innovation. the 'aviation' package should therefore accompany this momentum and not bury it.
mr president, our colleague has found his bone to chew on! i think she's gonna do the mandate with it, it's her glory hour. that is not why i am asking for the floor, but for a recall to the rules of procedure, pursuant to rule 22 (4). "i gather in my heart your wounded glory, i pour over you the fires of my torches and i'll stand guard around your graves, i'm the future, because the homeland". this last stanza of verhaeren's poem the homeland of the dead soldiers is a plea against the oblivion of the sacrifices made during the great war, and resonates particularly today, the day of the armistice, of a war that killed 9 million people in europe. mr president, the rule for the european institutions is that they respect the public holidays of the countries in which they are established. the 11th of november is a public holiday in france and belgium, and disregard for and disregard for the duty of memory is unacceptable, and in protest i ask all french people to leave the chamber and not to take part in the vote.
mr president, i am french. i will not leave the chamber out of respect for our assembly, but i want you all to know that this day began with thousands of commemorations in my homeland of the greatest slaughter the continent has ever known. a europe without memory, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be a europe of the heart. if we have any reason to be europeans today, it is to never look back at what happened before 11 november. remember that!
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we learned this morning that the syrian army has finally managed to break the siege it has been undergoing for more than two years now around kweires airport, a strategic military airport on the outskirts of aleppo, the martyr city of this never-ending conflict. i want to salute this key victory in the fight against the islamic state, and i pray that this is the beginning of the end for this islamist terrorist organization. since the outbreak of the syrian conflict, the european chancelleries have been singularly lacking in pragmatism. they have only added fuel to the fire by closing their embassies and then supporting rebel factions that were moderate in name only. last march, with my colleague marie-christine arnautu, i tabled a motion for a resolution calling for the resumption of diplomatic relations with syria, prior to any resolution of the conflict. for once, i must acknowledge the european union's lucidity, because the head of the european union delegation to syria has never broken off the dialogue with the syrian authorities. moreover, mr anis nacrour continues to travel to damascus several times a month. as regards aid to the syrian people, i regret that the commission is relying on organisations such as médecins sans frontières, which only operate in rebel-held areas. instead, we should help the organizations that are working across syria and carrying out their true humanitarian mission without taking sides. i am thinking of the red cross and the un agencies which, overwhelmed by the scale of the tragedy, are now short of funds. i also invite you to support established ngos such as the work of the east and sos christians of the east, whose young volunteers, as dynamic as they are effective, work closely with the people in syria, of course, but also in iraq, lebanon and jordan. these well-known and recognised organisations are doing a remarkable job through the dialogue they have established with the local authorities. so take inspiration from their pragmatism!
madam president, the syria fund is targeted at children and young people. i welcome the fact that it focuses on education, livelihood and food security. but for africa, it is about tackling the root causes of migration, that is, in particular, implementing the khartoum process in partnership, including with the worst regimes in the world, including sudan, which still bombs its population 3 million displaced and eritrea, an open-air prison where the european union wants to install solar panels. these governments are the very cause of instability. they are themselves involved in human trafficking, as a un report has shown. the main part of the eur 1.8 billion will be drawn from the edf. african governments seem to have understood this and are beginning to say that they do not want to play the policeman of the european union. cynicism or fantasy? the european union continues to turn its back on its duty to humanity, refusing to see that 90% of african migration is intra-african.
madam president, we are faced with an exceptional situation - and i think we have not finished repeating the words of the president of the commission - faced with a moral and historical responsibility which obliges us to find solutions that are commensurate with the situation. among them, the commission has chosen to create the 'madad fund' to respond to the syrian humanitarian crisis and parliament supports it. but these trust funds present us with two problems. the first concerns the financial promises which have not been kept by the member states. the second is that the ceilings for heading 4 of the budget are too low and there is no more money for external action. this forces the commission to create instruments outside the union budget, thus depriving its expenditure of genuine democratic control. the union's budget and therefore its action are suffocating because they are constrained by an inadequate and too narrow multiannual financial framework. not only will this crisis continue, but we will continue to face other crises. if we are to regain credibility, we must urgently face up to the budgetary reality and start the revision of the multiannual financial framework.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the daphne programme is, at first sight, a friendly programme. it was set up in 1997 and has the merit of seeking to combat violence against women and children. it is true that we must fight not only domestic violence but also female genital mutilation, a barbaric practice which has unfortunately been introduced into europe for a few decades. but we must be careful. a 2014 report reveals that the commission has funded transnational projects worth €9 million. it's a lot of money, and it's not certain that it's always been used to protect women and children. the bastos report of 5 january 2012 stresses in this regard the need to improve the transparency of programmes and the effectiveness of grants. clearly, a lot of money was handed out lightly, and ngos spent it on operating expenses. a belgian ngo, for example, received almost 400,000 euros for i quote "to develop an overview of how to deal with the phenomenon of missing children". not one family has been able to find their child. that's a lot of money for a simple overview. the daphne programme also presents the disadvantage of trying to combat stereotypes. i am afraid that this is an attempt to promote the gender theory. i strongly condemn this gender theory. i prefer to stick to biblical anthropology, which was the subject of a conference just a year ago in the vatican. men and women are different but equal. they must accept their complementarity as a factor in their mutual growth and fulfilment.
in writing. ‒ public administrations in the different member states need to communicate with each other quickly and efficiently in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. the freedom to work and to settle in another member state implies close cooperation between the home and host countries of european citizens. in addition, it is important to set up electronic platforms for public administrations. they will then be better able to transfer information from one member state to another. a worker, a student or a company established in another member state will then be able to benefit from an optimal service adapted to their specific needs. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to modernise the public sector by adopting the new european union programme 2016-2020 on interoperability solutions for public administrations, businesses and individuals in europe. in particular, this report aims to exploit the potential of new technologies, to ensure better cross-border coordination between european public administrations and the faster formulation of solutions for citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the isa programme is a programme to help member states to offer interoperable digital services. it will be endowed with 131 million euros from 2016 to 2020. the isa programme has supported, for example, actions on tools for creating and verifying electronic signatures, cross-border ehealth systems and open source software to support the european citizens' initiative, so it is an indispensable european tool!
in writing. ‒ the isa programme is a programme offering interoperability solutions for public administrations, businesses and individuals in europe. as this expires, a new programme is to be proposed for the period 2016-2020, the isa 2 programme. in short, this programme proposed by the european commission facilitates electronic collaboration between public administrations, particularly in the context of crossborder cooperation, and other actors in order to reduce administrative procedures considered to be long, costly and sometimes counterproductive. i support all initiatives aimed at improving the daily life and quality of life of the people in the administration, and i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i refused to take part in this vote because i consider it inadmissible to have scheduled it for november 11, in violation of the respect due to our ancestors who died for our freedom. if i had voted, i would have voted against this text because it recklessly encourages the exchange of computer data between administrations. this will make it easier for the us secret services (among others) to spy on us.
in writing. ‒ as early as 1995, the european union set up programmes to promote trans-european exchange networks through which member states' administrations could exchange data with other administrations or directly with the union institutions. at the time, this included maximising the interoperability of the minitel network. this programme was resumed in 1999 to establish cooperation via the internet. the report before us today is intended to extend this system to businesses and citizens. it proposes the development of more efficient online administration at national, regional and local levels of public administrations, as well as cross-border or cross-sectoral electronic interaction. although it is of no use and will probably be used later on for the wrong purposes of general surveillance, i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme on interoperability solutions for public administrations, businesses and individuals in europe (isa2) interoperability as a means of modernising the public sector. the latter incorporates all the concerns of the epp group, including how to overcome electronic barriers between member states, ensure cross-border interoperability between european public administrations and, beyond that, fully exploit the opportunities offered by new technologies and remain open and flexible to be able to integrate new challenges and new areas. it also aims to facilitate solutions that meet the needs of smes.
in writing. ‒ data exchanges between member states, administrations, businesses and citizens must not be left out of the digital single market. interoperability solutions for public administrations should allow for the establishment of standards and a common semantics for all administrations, with the aim of facilitating the exchange of data. the expected benefits are significant, whether in terms of improving the efficiency of public services or in terms of strengthening the competitiveness of businesses in the union. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which represents as many opportunities for our european citizens as for our businesses.
in writing. ‒ a new european programme on interoperability solutions for public administrations, businesses and individuals in europe is needed as the current isa programme will end on 31 december 2015. i supported this report on the new programme, called 'isa2', which will propose interoperability solutions for the period 2016-2020. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the text also emphasises the cross-border or cross-sectoral dimension of interoperability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reform of the electoral law in the union. it is important to adapt european electoral legislation to the current issues and challenges. we need to build a coherent set of rules so that the european elections are more visible and more transparent. the text recalls that meps vote individually and personally, which is a particularly important concept. member states should set up an electoral threshold to avoid excessive fragmentation of the european parliament which would undermine the effectiveness of the decision-making process. member states must also ensure gender parity on electoral lists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by danuta hübner and jo leinen on the reform of the electoral law of the european union. the aim of this text is to remedy the growing disengagement of european citizens from the european elections and to promote the emergence of a european public space. at a time when national retreat is all too often observed in the union, i welcome the adoption of an amendment by my political family to create a european constituency. i was also in favour of introducing a minimum electoral threshold and improving the procedures for nominating the front-runners for the presidency of the european commission, ensuring that they are democratically representative (in particular, to avoid over-representation of unrepresentative political parties) and that the european political offer is more easily readable. i did not, however, support the recommendation to harmonise the right to vote at 16, since the full awareness of european citizenship and what it entails comes later in my view, nor the recommendation in favour of electronic voting, because i consider that the physical movement to the polling station is a citizen's act to be preserved.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report makes a number of recommendations to the council, which will have to vote unanimously on a possible reform of the european electoral system. these amendments will then be sent to the member states for ratification by the competent national bodies, in accordance with their constitutional rules. the report aims to strengthen the democratic dimension of european elections by improving the visibility of parliament's work and the efficiency of the organisation of european elections. the report provides for the introduction of electronic voting, by internet or by mail to facilitate access to the ballot box. with my colleagues from the french epp delegation, i also supported an amendment in favour of equal lists providing for a balance between men and women, as is already the case in france. i voted in favour of the objectives of this report.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 11 november, i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the electoral law of the european union. the european parliament, on the basis of article 223 of the treaty on european union, can make proposals for the amendment of the european electoral law, on which the council acts unanimously. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. on the question of a common electoral constituency and the question of raising the legal voting age to 16 for the european elections, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i share the rapporteur's conviction that the electoral law must be reformed in order to increase the visibility of meps and the knowledge of this election, which is largely ignored or ignored by european citizens. i am convinced, however, that the conduct of these elections must be as close as possible to national electoral practices. for example, i do not believe that lowering the voting age to 16 is a citizen's expectation. this rule is only applicable in austria. why impose it on the rest of europe when it is not the culture of other countries? it should be borne in mind that the right to vote is accompanied by duties and legal and criminal liability. it is not a cosmetic change but a much deeper upheaval that follows from such a decision. as regards the other proposals, i also believe that all the initiatives to promote elected officials and the political groups to which they belong are going in the right direction.
in writing. i refused to take part in this vote because i consider it inadmissible to have scheduled it for november 11, in violation of the respect due to our ancestors who died for our freedom. if i had voted, i would have voted against this text because it is an outrageous attempt to disconnect the european elections from the nations by extolling 'european citizenship' and by strengthening the role of european political parties in the election campaign. we can only guess what the next step will be: it will be to ban national political parties from presenting lists. clear objective: to get rid of the fn!
in writing. ‒ this report pursues the positive objective of harmonising the methods of electing members of the european parliament in the various countries of the european union to ensure equality for citizens. however, he sees this reform as part of a supranational, undemocratic evolution of the european union. the report also calls for the european parliament and its members to be given a 'constitutional mandate'. for such a constitution to exist, it would also have to be approved by the citizens themselves, for example through a constituent assembly. the report also boasts of a 'citizenship of the union' which does not really exist. and finally, he claims that parliament now has as much power as the council, which is absolutely false, as is shown, for example, by parliament's growing impotence in budgetary matters. i am voting against to show my disagreement with the overall undemocratic framework of this debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the reform of the european union's electoral law. the text makes proposals to adapt the law, which was drawn up in 1976, in order to increase the democratic dimension of european elections and to strengthen voter participation.
in writing. ‒ the continuing rise in the rate of abstention since the introduction of direct universal suffrage in 1979 demonstrates the growing disinterest of citizens in the european parliament elections. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the electoral law to reverse this trend. the proposed measures include the introduction of online voting to encourage citizens, especially the younger generation, to make their voices heard, and to give european citizens living abroad the opportunity to vote. the report also proposes to harmonise the procedures for elections in all member states, to make them more readable. thus, the electoral lists should be drawn up 12 weeks before the elections. finally, to improve the functioning of the parliament, thresholds for the distribution of seats will be introduced in the largest countries, the aim being to avoid the fragmentation of political groups which interfered with the work of the institution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes to reform the european electoral act of 1976. what do we want with these various reforms? we want to improve the democratic and transnational dimension of the european elections and the way they are organised. we want to strengthen the concept of european citizenship and electoral equality. we want to promote equal representation of men and women in our assembly. we want to improve the visibility of european political parties. to do this, we demand that the european elections be held with candidates at the head of the list for the presidency of the european commission. in practical terms, this means that europeans will vote to elect the president of the european commission directly. we also ask the council to create a common european electoral constituency, in which the lists would be headed by the number one candidate of each european party. we must create a genuine european political area, the election of our assembly being the beating heart of it. it is now up to the council and the member states to adopt these proposals unanimously before they can come into force.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the reform of the 1976 european union electoral law. on the basis of article 223 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, it is for the european parliament to make proposals for amending and updating the european electoral law; the proposals are then sent to the council, which must act unanimously. the proposals in this report aim in particular to mobilise and involve citizens more in the european elections, the turnout in the last elections being only 42.61%. the aim of the proposal is to encourage and facilitate participation in european elections, particularly among young people, and it proposes, in particular, electronic, online and postal voting systems in all member states, while avoiding double voting. in the end, the central issue in this text, which i support, is to strengthen the european dimension of elections and citizenship.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted on 11 november its proposal for the revision of the electoral law for the european elections. the council will act unanimously the least that can be said is that the european parliament has not seized this opportunity to reform the european elections process in an attempt to at least partially fill the democratic deficit of the european union. the major innovation of the reform is the establishment of transnational lists which will favour european parties at the expense of political diversity. despite its declarations in favour of bringing the institution closer to the citizens, proposals for better representation of small political parties with low or no thresholds, most measures in favour of gender equality, or the right to vote from the age of 16 have all been rejected. the european parliament is missing a real opportunity to reform the european electoral law and to promote the creation of a real european public space. and then we will continue to be amazed at the lack of enthusiasm among the citizens for the european elections.
in writing. ‒ we need a new set of legislative measures to adapt the european aviation sector to the new challenges it is currently facing. it is true that the airline industry is having some difficulty adjusting to the increasingly intense international competition. yet this sector has a high potential for innovation and growth. we must give this sector a new impetus so that it can unlock its full competitive potential. it is particularly important to combat unfair competition. this would require increased vigilance by the international bodies set up for this purpose in order to establish fair global competition in the air transport sector. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the european parliament's position with a view to the publication of the european commission's new 'aviation' package on 2 december. supporting the air transport industry is essential, as the sector is expected to grow by 5% per year until 2030 globally. in view of the many challenges facing the union today, such as the safety objective, the loss of competitiveness and the increase in the number of passengers, european legislation needs to be modernised. several priorities need to be highlighted, namely strengthening the competitiveness of european airlines in a context of tough international competition, while taking into account the interests of the three main players (airlines, airports and aviation industries), and maintaining high safety standards, in order to guarantee the protection of passengers. as aviation is a strategic economic sector in the european union, employing over 5 million people and contributing to 2.4% of gdp (€365 billion), i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. aviation is a very important economic sector in the european union, contributing to nearly 2.4% of gdp and hundreds of thousands of jobs! but to ensure aviation safety, to face global competition and to meet the challenge of increasing passenger numbers, european legislation should be updated and more responsibilities could be given to the european aviation safety agency. we must defend the competitiveness of our airline industry! i also believe that the member states should speed up the implementation of the single european sky provisions.
in writing. ‒ in france, we know the importance of the aviation sector as it is a job-creating and highly strategic sector. in the european union, aviation employs more than 5 million people and contributes to 2.4% of european gdp. it is also a sector threatened by strong competition, as evidenced by the current crisis of air france. this resolution is timely. it is indeed imperative that europe prepare for the future of this sector and adapt its legislation accordingly. otherwise, the flourishing aviation industry and the jobs that go with it will be lost. ensuring the viability of the air transport sector means at the same time ensuring the stability of european economies and the capacity of the european union to be a leading economic actor in the world. that is why i have decided to support this resolution.
in writing. i refused to take part in this vote because i consider it inadmissible to have scheduled it for november 11, in violation of the respect due to our ancestors who died for our freedom. if i had voted, i would have abstained because, while this text seeks to protect the european airline industry against unfair competition from gulf airlines, it also provides for the implementation of the 'single european sky' which i oppose.
in writing. ‒ the joint resolution of the right and the social liberals takes up the european commission's 'single sky' initiative. the usual mantra is to 'improve the competitiveness of the airline industry' in europe, that is to say to speed up its liberalisation in order to avoid the over-exploitation of people. the resolution calls on the commission to "eliminate the burdens on european airlines at national and union level". the resolution also ignores any environmental prospects and, on the eve of cop 21, stresses that 'the aviation sector is recognised as a growing sector' and welcomes the forecasts of a doubling of traffic by 2030. i am astonished at the irony of this document and i am voting against this text which threatens airline employees, passenger safety and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution on the future 'aviation package', which sets out the commission's recommendations for the future legislative proposal in the field of aviation. i support this text which recommends supporting and developing this sector which makes a considerable contribution to growth and employment. in 2014, almost 850 million people used air transport in the union, an increase of 4,4% compared to 2013 and 16,9% compared to 2009. the aviation industry generates a turnover of around eur 100 billion per year and directly employs 500,000 people. the report calls on the commission to take action to improve the competitiveness of the sector by encouraging innovation in air traffic management, aircraft and engine design and fuel. it also calls for greater security in european airspace, where traffic is expected to double by 2030.
in writing. ‒ the european aviation sector, which accounts for 2.4% of the union's gdp and 2.6 million direct jobs, is expected to double its traffic over the next 15 years. to accompany this progress, new rules must be defined to guarantee safety, security and environmental conditions. the competitiveness of the aviation industry and of our airlines must not be forgotten. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure fair competition between airlines in the union and with those of third countries. in the area of infrastructure, we must consider the opportunity offered by regional airports in terms of land use planning and the decongestion of major airports. finally, in a sector where restructuring has never been so extensive in the last decade, it is the duty of the member states, through a social europe, to guarantee high working conditions and social standards. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the future aviation package, which makes recommendations to the european commission in its work. the new measures should help to rebalance the benefits of the growth of the airline industry to the benefit of our european airlines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the future 'aviation' package. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreement with ryanair was in fact concluded. but it faces many challenges: an increasingly competitive environment, a constantly increasing number of passengers, climate change, fluctuating oil prices, and more. we are waiting for the commission's proposal by the end of 2015, and parliament intends to weigh in on the debate and recall its priorities. one of them is to increase the competitiveness of the aviation sector by strengthening airlines, airports and the aviation industry in europe, by ensuring fair conditions of competition on the world market or by fighting unfair competition. the implementation of the single european sky and the negotiation of comprehensive agreements with the union's main aviation trading partners should also be accelerated. another point to be stressed is the issue of safety, whether at airports, in airspace, in aircraft, and in all phases of flight. i am thinking in particular of the medical follow-up of pilots and the procedures for entering and leaving the cockpits.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to give the european parliament's orientations on the future 'aviation' package being drafted by the european commission. it is essential to stimulate the eu aviation economy by ensuring fair and just conditions of competition, while maintaining high social and safety standards. the text also calls for the negotiation of global agreements in the field of aviation with the european union's main trading partners, but also for vigilance over the loss of competitiveness of european airlines and airports in relation to subsidised carriers and airports in third countries. the future aviation package will improve airspace management and airport services, ensure that working conditions and social standards are maintained at the current level and, finally, strengthen the role of the european aviation safety agency.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is part of the 'single european sky', an initiative to 'reform' european air traffic control. this initiative is divided into legislative packages of regulations, the first two of which were adopted in 2004 and 2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the future of the air transport sector. the commission should continue its efforts to liberalize the sector and to privatise airport services, while harmonizing european control systems. this resolution gives the commission a blank cheque and follows the same neoliberal logic, calling for the 'removal of regulatory barriers' and 'the removal of burdens on airlines', disregarding the consequences this may have on the working conditions of airport staff and the safety of flights for all. we know the song: i vote against.
mr president, let me just make a comparison. our group has asked that, following the debate on the paris terrorist attacks, parliament should adopt a resolution asking the commission what it intends to do to implement all the measures that were adopted but never implemented and which could have saved hundreds of lives. i would be a little surprised if it were actually felt in the european parliament that a resolution on animal welfare - which i fully support - would be put before a resolution on the survival of men and women. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, as the animal welfare strategy 2012-2015 comes to an end, i welcome this issue being brought up and i hope that we will establish a new strategy for the period 2016-2020. if article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union tells us that the union and the member states take full account of the requirements of animal welfare as a sensitive subject, we must go further in animal welfare and remove all the remaining ambiguities in our animal welfare strategies. so, in agriculture, the proliferation of intensive livestock farming in france and europe, combined with the threat of ttip, makes me fear for animal welfare and the environment, but also for human health. i have condemned, for example, farms such as the 1200 bulls in alsace, the 1000 cows in the somme, the 1000 calves in the creuse and the industrial pig farm in poiroux in the vendée. another important point is animal testing. i regret that the citizens' initiative on vivisection has not been followed up by the commission. i also believe that, in view of the current scientific means, and also in view of the uncertain results of animal testing, it is necessary to ban it definitively and to replace it gradually by alternative methods. i would also like to draw attention to the appalling suffering of animals killed without stunning before slaughter. it is essential, as a first step, to make it compulsory to have detailed labelling on the methods of slaughtering meat. the same is true of furs. secondly, the stunning of animals before slaughter or killing should be made compulsory and the exceptions for ritual slaughter should be abolished. on the other hand, special attention will have to be paid to combating any trafficking in animal species and products such as ivory. the perpetrators of such acts should be punished more severely with sanctions that really do not make them want to repeat the crime. finally, i believe it is necessary to ensure that member states follow existing best practices for the effective and humane management of stray dogs and feral cats.
madam president, commissioner, the 2012-2015 strategy is ending on a very mixed note and it seems that your commission is not proposing any new measures, a new strategy for the period 2016-2020, and you are telling us to organise a major survey. it would be totally incomprehensible - at a time when your commission is negotiating the transatlantic treaty and we are therefore going to talk about intensive farming conditions across the atlantic - that we should not legislate on this essential issue. the concentration camp world, in which animals are locked up in unbearable conditions of captivity, must not be tolerated in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. i therefore ask you, commissioner, and citizens are entitled to ask themselves, are we defending the big industrial players and the agri-food groups, or are we protecting animals and human health?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the fact that this matter has been placed on the agenda. it is important that parliament can debate this before the european commission's work. animal welfare is an important issue for europeans. our citizens are increasingly looking to consume responsibly. they also want to know where food comes from and how it gets on their plates. in this connection, i think it is necessary to welcome the efforts and progress made by the various sectors. in addition, farmers are involved in animal welfare, which is inseparable from quality production. if the commission intends to continue its work with the development of a new strategy, it will have to be pragmatic and objective, including all the actors, professionals and consumers. in other words, it should not point the finger at those involved in the livestock sector but promote good practice and encourage progress. in addition, as i have already stressed on several occasions, we cannot, on the one hand, advocate animal welfare and, on the other, impose disproportionate constraints on our farmers. it is essential to ensure that there is coherence between the legislation we are putting in place and the consequences that it may have on farming patterns in europe. the requirements already made to farmers must be taken into account. the example of the nec directive on member states' emission ceilings for the main pollutants shows the difficulty of aligning objectives with the reality on the ground. consumers want both greenhouse gas reduction and open-air farming. however, the capture of methane requires either the caging of cows or the intubation of cows, a contradictory and incompatible situation. i'll let you imagine the difficulty...
mr president, alzheimer's disease and related diseases affect about 6 million people in europe and the number of new cases diagnosed each year continues to rise. in france, 225,000 new cases are detected each year and one in four french people have someone in their entourage who is affected, which causes a lot of suffering and distress, both for the person affected and for those around him. this disease causes gradual and irreversible loss of mental functions, including memory, and unfortunately, there is currently no treatment for alzheimer's disease, although some drug treatments can help slow the process. this disease, which is the leading cause of addiction in europe, requires additional research resources and, above all, recognition as a priority health issue in france and europe. i have, moreover, tabled a written statement on this subject with 24 of my parliamentary colleagues from all political groups, because the general and human interest must come first. i would now ask all members of this house to sign this declaration.
mr president, commissioner, you have given us details of the energy union, the great project that jean-claude juncker wants to see completed, which must ensure the energy security of the european union and at the same time the competitiveness of our companies. there's a lot to say, but i'm just going to focus on two points. the first concerns the achievement of the 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. we know that we will have great difficulty in achieving this, because many member states are not making the necessary investments in this area. the juncker plan has, however, financed a number of projects, notably in france. this must be emphasized, especially in the case of heating and cooling, which are the main sources of energy consumption in the european union, because existing buildings, that is to say 98% of buildings, cannot be left out of any energy improvement. i would therefore like to know, commissioner, what you intend to do to really encourage member states to invest in energy efficiency. secondly, as regards the electricity and gas markets, we find that they do not work well: lack of interconnection, regional cooperation and cross-border trade. the internal market is in dire need of strengthening and integration. renewable energies make this system a bit complex and therefore it is important and urgent to respond to the complexity of energy management with a real european strategy focusing on so-called smart grid management. so there is still a lot of work to be done. in the context of the forthcoming reform of the carbon market - my colleague kariņš has spoken about this - it is important to take account of the interests of our industry and not to sacrifice our industrial base to a certain ideology; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are not used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. in this context, commissioner, you can count on our support.
mr president, commissioner, the commission has made a mistake. i am not saying that you are wrong, i am saying that the commission is wrong. she was wrong about the concept of the energy market. it is a natural oligopoly where there is distortion of information, but you don't take into account the notion of power, the notion of capacity for spikes in consumption. you have also cut off the concepts of production and distribution which are essential to the energy market, which is a natural oligopoly. you have misunderstood the notion of priority between environmental, competitive and security priorities. safety is first. you have misunderstood the notions of responsibility and solidarity. the responsibility, of course, lies primarily with the states. they're the ones responsible. today you are faced with states acting alone. these are the uk, france, germany and nord stream. i am sure you want to make an energy policy without france, without germany, without italy, without britain. but who do you want to do it with? the commission was wrong about the notion of safety first. it was lacking in financial security. it is failing in the area of border security. it is now failing again in the field of energy security. it's a failure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy europe is in crisis. we're in a losing situation here. wholesale prices are generally too low to provide investment opportunities for energy companies, but this trend does not benefit the final consumer, whether residential or industrial. the retail prices are often variable but substantially higher, which weighs on the purchasing power of households and on the balance sheet of firms. it would be pointless to rely on the market alone to solve everything. i do not believe that the invisible hand of the market can multiply interconnections, replace our fossil fuel power stations with renewable energy, insulate our buildings or accelerate research and development. the market alone will not guarantee us a leading position in the industrial part of the energy transition. i want our collective bankruptcy on the photovoltaic panel case. since it is useless to expect the market to initiate this transition, it must be stimulated by european political impulses. the governance aspect will not be the easiest to negotiate because without a revision of the treaties how can national sovereignty and pan-european interests be reconciled? the national energy plans would be a step forward in coordination but let us not repeat the mistakes made with the european semester and the national reform programmes which are often considered too bureaucratic and not democratic enough. i therefore sincerely hope that this complex watchmaking will be up to date with the new challenges we are facing, so that europe can finally break free from its external energy dependence and continue to play a leading role in the fight against climate change.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy union offers us a great opportunity to build a common market which serves our common interests while taking into account national realities. the price of energy represents in some sectors a quarter or even a third of the cost of production. yet europe produces less than half of its energy and has few reserves. ensuring supplies, improving energy efficiency and promoting low-carbon alternatives are therefore our priorities. however, we must make sure that europe's energy policy, however ambitious, continues to create jobs and strengthen our competitiveness. thanks to investments in new technologies, france is one of the countries with the lowest per capita greenhouse gas emissions. this effort must be supported throughout europe. let us not forget that it is research and innovation that will make our industries world benchmarks competitive for exports. we therefore need to mobilise more of the horizon 2020 financial instrument to achieve our energy objectives.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome this report, which does not repeat the mistakes made with the mif ii directive. today, this report is very important because it will allow the full exercise of the activities of independent advisers in wealth management and insurance intermediation and therefore gives full satisfaction to a profession that was worried about its future. this report supports the idea that the independent intermediary will be able to operate without being stifled and subjugated by banks and insurance companies. we are very pleased with this report, but i think we should also stress that in future large financial institutions such as banks and insurance companies will have to comply with the same guidelines as insurance intermediaries. it is time for the european parliament to give all the powers it has to ensure that this profession is widely licensed, not only by banks and insurance companies but also by financial intermediaries. i think the point of this report is to challenge the lobby of the banks and insurance companies, who thought they were the only ones who could manage and organise this profession. today, insurance intermediaries have the possibility to exist. they are well-trained professionals with good experience and who, i believe, will be just as competent as the employees of banks and insurance companies.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, contrary to what the title of this report might suggest, this is not a report on the schengen area. the text is in fact intended to provide legal clarifications by repealing acts which have become obsolete because they are temporary or have been recycled in subsequent acts. with my colleagues from the national front, we have always opposed the schengen area on the grounds that it constitutes a dangerous abandonment of sovereignty. the latest events prove that we are right: the schengen area is a strainer that encourages mass immigration and allows terrorists to come and go in the territory of the member states of the european union with impunity. as this report is only about clarifying certain acts, but as we do not wish to endorse the schengen area, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text, which changes nothing: it simply repeals acts which have become obsolete, either because they were temporary or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. these acts were related to the 'area of freedom, security and justice' that would be the wonderful schengen area. despite the attacks in france on 13 november, the eurocrats are still not ready to question their schengen dogma. how many bombings, how many deaths will it take for them to accept their deadly mistakes?
in writing. ‒ the schengen acquis is today a loose collection of decisions and regulations, many of which are considered obsolete either because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. i support the joint initiative of the council, the commission and parliament to repeal these provisions. this objective of transparency of union law is indeed an essential element of the strategy to better legislate and to improve the acceptance of european rules as substitutes for national rules where appropriate. however, i remain very sceptical about this report, which does not go far enough or fully into its logic of redesigning a system which is now showing all its shortcomings. if i had to describe this report, i would say that it is a cataplasm on a wooden leg, since the desired schengen system, and in particular the abolition of internal border controls, carries within itself all the elements of insecurity and the development of trafficking in all kinds: human beings, arms and drugs. i do not think that it is enough to repeal certain acts of the schengen acquis. i therefore abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i preferred to abstain on this text which, although it is consistent with a certain logic, since it aims to repeal obsolete acts relating to schengen, does not go to the end of the matter by making schengen itself obsolete. the acts repealed by the report are admittedly finally recognised as obsolete, either because they are temporary or because they have already been the subject of subsequent acts. for the sake of transparency, it was therefore essential to seek their legal suppression. however, the tragedy of the recent attacks in paris and the flight of terrorists who were able to take full advantage of the free movement of persons within the european union have tragically brought to light once again the failure of a europe of the purse strings and the need, more urgent than ever, to restore our national borders. this parliament's report does not go far enough, and therefore abstention was required.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in the interests of transparency and 'better regulation', they must be repealed. we of course consider that schengen as such is no longer relevant. i abstained because the report does not call into question schengen.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in the interests of transparency, the report recommends that they be repealed, in particular in order to lighten and simplify the current legislation. these repeals are logical and we consider that it would be unwise to maintain these acts in their present form. nevertheless, we have always been in favour of abolishing the schengen area, which is a veritable cesspool for illegal migrants, including a number of jihadists, as the attacks in paris on friday 13 november have shown. i did not want to endorse the free movement of individuals within the european union, so i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to repeal certain obsolete acts of the schengen acquis, relating to the executive committee and the second generation tests of the schengen information system. it also recommended that the legal nature of the commission proposal be changed from a decision to a union regulation, which was considered more appropriate to guarantee the immediate and complete repeal of these acts in all member states. i support these objectives and the technical amendments and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. as these acts have become obsolete, i support this repeal measure as it contributes to greater clarity of european legislation in the area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of these two reports was to repeal various temporary acts relating to the schengen area in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in particular. i am opposed to this area of free movement without controls or frontiers, which is unreasonable both economically, socially and culturally, and i refuse to take part in these questions of the organisation of a system which i consider to be illegitimate and harmful. i therefore abstained on these two reports by the socialist, claude moraes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because i do not take part in decisions on federalist texts.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 24 november, i voted in favour of three reports aimed at repealing certain acts of the schengen acquis. these texts aim to repeal a number of legal measures relating to the area of freedom, security and justice and legal provisions in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which have become obsolete. the acts repealed here are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. the aim is to ensure consistency and to improve the transparency of union law in order to better legislate in the interests of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to repeal the schengen acquis acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which have become obsolete because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. it is not at all a question of calling into question what is working in schengen but of simplifying european regulation, which i have often deplored for its burdens and inconsistencies. but this vote allows me to renew my appeal for realism. my party has long called for a re-design of schengen to adapt to new realities and new threats that transcend national borders. the urgent need is for increased control of the external borders and systematic checks on third country nationals and european citizens.
in writing. ‒ contrary to what the title of this report might suggest, this is not a review of the schengen area. it is in fact a question of providing legal clarifications by repealing acts which have become obsolete because they are temporary or have been recycled in subsequent acts. with my colleagues from the national front, we have always opposed the schengen area on the grounds that it constitutes a dangerous abandonment of sovereignty. the latest events prove that we are right: the schengen area is a strainer that encourages mass immigration and allows terrorists to come and go in the territory of the member states of the european union with impunity. as this report is only about clarifying certain acts, but as we do not want to endorse the schengen area, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague claude moraes on the abrogation of certain acts of the schengen acquis. certain acts concerning legal measures on the area of freedom, security and justice were temporary in nature or were incorporated into other acts subsequently. it was therefore necessary to repeal them in the interests of clarity and simplification of the acts. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it deletes a number of obsolete acts concerning the area of freedom, security and justice. the aim was to improve transparency, clarity and to demonstrate consistency for better european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain obsolete acts relating to the area of freedom, security and justice. in order to improve the effectiveness of the act, we proposed to change the type of act from 'decision' to 'regulation', which is binding in all its elements and directly applicable by the member states. the republicans and i are also calling for a thorough revision of the schengen agreements, which are inadequate in their present form and functioning to the reality of the threats facing the countries of the union today.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in the interests of transparency and 'better regulation', they must be repealed. however, recent events have once again demonstrated that schengen as such is no longer relevant. the external borders are no longer guarded, so the system is obsolete. that is why i abstained on the proposal to repeal only certain acts.
in writing. - i abstained in that vote. some of the texts and acts forming part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant, either because they were intended to be purely temporary or because they have been replaced by subsequent acts. the repeal of the treaties is therefore a logical step in the interests of transparency and simplification of legislation. nevertheless, we are calling into question the overall desirability of schengen. voting for it would therefore perhaps have sent a signal of support for this european utopia, whereas voting against it would have meant wanting to maintain obsolete acts. abstention was therefore the only possible political and technical option.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. we believe that the schengen area is no longer relevant, especially in the light of recent events which have shown its futility. voting for this repeal would be to support schengen, and voting against it is pointless since it would only serve to keep obsolete acts and would not even call the area itself into question. abstention is the only valid choice.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the commission proposes to repeal a dozen legislative acts that have become obsolete since the integration of the schengen acquis directly into the european treaties. the 'obligation on schengen states to exchange statistical information to enable better control of migration at the external borders' is thus deleted as it has become obsolete since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 which entrusted the frontex agency with the management and analysis of the situation at the external borders. what a strange lack in today's world! although this is a technical report designed to 'simplify' eu law, i am voting against it to show my disagreement with these measures which have shown their profound ineffectiveness. it is not a good thing that they are incorporated into the treaties and thus made even more difficult to change.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is not to return to the schengen area but to clarify its legal framework by repealing acts that have become obsolete because they are temporary or have been recycled in subsequent acts. the national front is opposed to the schengen area, a tool that is harmful to our country, as recent events have shown. as this report is only concerned with clarifying certain acts, but does not wish to endorse the schengen area, i shall abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in the interests of transparency and legislative clarity, it is proposed to repeal them. however, we consider that the schengen agreements themselves are no longer relevant. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
in writing. ‒ this report relates to a proposal for simplification of the law. the relevance of certain provisions relating to schengen has been called into question because they were taken over by subsequent acts. this is part of a transparency approach and the european commission's better regulation policy. however, while i support this desire for simplification and clarification of positive law, i condemn the very idea of the schengen agreements. but to vote in favour of this report would be to ignore the fact that there are no national frontiers. i can therefore only vote against this proposal which does not in any way call into question the schengen agreements. i therefore decided to abstain from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the repeal of certain acts relating to the area of freedom, security and justice. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the union institutions are currently implementing. some legal measures are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. they should therefore be removed from the legislation in force.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature and should therefore be repealed.
in writing. i supported this report to approve the commission's decision to repeal legislative acts rendered obsolete by the integration of the schengen acquis into the european treaties. this report removes the acts allowing member states to exchange statistical information on migration flows at the external borders, which was transferred to frontex after the adoption of regulation (ec) no 2007/2004. simplification of european legislation is important and necessary.
in writing. this report relates to a proposal for simplification of the law. the relevance of certain provisions relating to schengen has been called into question because they were taken over by subsequent acts. this is part of a transparency approach and part of the european commission's 'better lawmaking' policy. however, while i support this desire for simplification and clarification of positive law, i condemn the very idea of the schengen agreements. but to vote in favour of this report would be to ignore the fact that there are no national frontiers. i can therefore only vote against this proposal which does not in any way call into question the schengen agreements. i therefore decided to abstain from voting on this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted to repeal this text because it had become legally obsolete. we must adopt clear texts to effectively strengthen our area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which proposes to change the type of legislative act so that this decision becomes a regulation; in addition, an addition in the title states that the repealed acts in question are part of the schengen acquis. the regulation will thus allow the repeal of 11 decisions of the schengen executive committee, due to the fact that their content was taken over by subsequent acts, as well as the 2008 regulation on the testing of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii), which exhausted its legal effects when sis ii became operational on 9 april 2013.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in the interests of transparency and 'better regulation', they must be repealed. voting against this text is pointless, since it would be the same as keeping obsolete acts, whereas this report does not call schengen into question. i therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of the other moraes report (66 - a8-0250/2015), this text repeals acts which are part of the 'schengen acquis' and which are no longer relevant today because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up in subsequent acts. nevertheless, the national front has always been opposed to the schengen acquis and there is no question of our supporting it. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text, which changes nothing: it simply repeals acts that have become obsolete, either because they were temporary or because their content was taken up in subsequent acts. these acts concerned police and judicial cooperation... which brussels refuses to strengthen. despite the attacks in france on 13 november, the eurocrats are still not ready to question their schengen dogma. how many bombings, how many deaths will it take for them to accept their deadly mistakes?
in writing. ‒ another parliamentary report which, with good intentions, does not dare to go all the way with its initial reasoning! the text by mr moraes was aimed at repealing obsolete acts in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters within the framework of the schengen acquis. while it is commendable to want to carry out a legal update so that the legislative framework corresponds to reality and duplications are avoided, it is clear that the most outdated act of all schengen is still not challenged! the recent terrorist attacks in paris and the new security measures taken in brussels have unfortunately brought the reality to light, since at least three of the jihadists involved have been able to take advantage of the total absence of frontiers to come and perpetrate their crimes, and one of them has even managed to flee at will. in view of this lack of realism, and despite some good sense efforts by parliament, i have therefore had to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ this concerns the repeal of acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which form part of the schengen acquis. in the interests of transparency and 'better regulation', they must be repealed. however, since schengen was not called into question, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis in the field of police and judicial cooperation are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in the interests of transparency, the report recommends that they be repealed, in particular in order to lighten and simplify the current legislation. these repeals are logical and we consider that it would be unwise to maintain these acts in their present form. nevertheless, we have always been in favour of abolishing the schengen area, which is a veritable cesspool for illegal migrants, including a number of jihadists, as the attacks in paris on friday 13 november have shown. i did not want to endorse the free movement of individuals within the european union, so i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to repeal certain obsolete acts in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters. these acts concern the executive committee and the second generation tests of the schengen information system. it also recommended changing the legal nature of the commission proposal from a decision to a union regulation, which was considered more appropriate to ensure the immediate and complete repeal of these acts in all member states. i support these objectives and the technical amendments and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. as these acts have become obsolete, i support this repeal measure as it contributes to greater clarity of european legislation in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters following the adoption of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of these two reports was to repeal various temporary acts relating to the schengen area in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in particular. i am opposed to this area of free movement without controls or border, which is irrational both economically, socially and culturally, and i refuse to take part in these questions of the organisation of a system which i consider to be illegitimate and harmful. i therefore abstained on these two reports by the socialist, claude moraes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because the reference text is a federalist text which i do not recognise.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 24 november, i voted in favour of three reports aimed at repealing certain acts of the schengen acquis. these texts aim to repeal a number of legal measures relating to the area of freedom, security and justice and legal provisions in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which have become obsolete. the acts repealed here are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. the aim is to ensure consistency and to improve the transparency of union law in order to better legislate in the interests of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to repeal the schengen acquis acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which have become obsolete because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. it is not at all a question of calling into question what is working in schengen, but of simplifying european regulation, which i have often deplored for its burdens and inconsistencies. but this vote allows me to renew my appeal for realism. my party has long called for a re-design of schengen to adapt to new realities and new threats that transcend national borders. it is urgent to strengthen external border controls and systematic checks on third country nationals and european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report repeals acts which form part of the 'schengen acquis' and which are no longer relevant today because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up in subsequent acts. with my colleagues from the national front, we have always been opposed to the schengen acquis, which we are not in a position to support. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague claude moraes on the abrogation of certain acts of the schengen acquis in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. certain acts concerning legal measures on the area of freedom, security and justice in criminal matters were temporary or were taken over by other acts subsequently. in the interests of clarity and simplification, it was useful to repeal those acts. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which repeals certain acts already contained in other texts or which have expired, in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters. the aim was to improve transparency, clarity and to demonstrate consistency for better european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain obsolete acts of the schengen acquis in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in order to improve the effectiveness of the act, we proposed to change the type of act from 'decision' to 'regulation', which is binding in all its elements and directly applicable by the member states. the republicans and i are also calling for a major overhaul of the schengen agreements, which are inadequate in their present form and functioning to meet the reality of the threats facing the countries of the union today.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. these are acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and form part of the schengen acquis. in the interests of transparency and 'better regulation', they must be repealed. however, recent events have once again demonstrated that schengen as such is no longer relevant. the external borders are no longer guarded, so the system is obsolete. that is why i abstained on the proposal to repeal only certain acts.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. as in the previous vote, we believe that the schengen area is no longer relevant, especially in the light of recent events which have shown its futility. voting for this repeal would be to support schengen, and voting against it is pointless since it would only serve to keep obsolete acts and would not even call the area itself into question. abstention is the only valid choice.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the commission proposes to repeal a number of legislative acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which have become obsolete mainly since the integration of the schengen acquis directly into the european treaties. these include mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between states, the fight against drug trafficking, the sharing of information and intelligence between customs authorities, and the more controversial schengen information system. a key component of the migration screening system that came into operation in 2013, this system of recording everyone entering the union, similar to the north american version that inspired it, is already a financial hole for the results we have in the fight against terrorism. it should also be noted that 6 of the 7 murderers in paris were europeans and not foreigners. although this is a technical report aimed at 'simplifying' eu law, i am voting against it to show my disagreement with these ineffective measures.
in writing. ‒ as in the case of the other moraes report (66 - a8-0250/2015), this text repeals acts which are part of the so-called 'schengen acquis' and which no longer seem relevant, either because of their temporary nature or because they are recycled in subsequent acts. nevertheless, the national front has always opposed the schengen area and there is no question of endorsing its legal changes. that is why the honourable member is abstaining on this matter.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the same observations and the same abstention as the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain acts relating to the area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ this report, like the previous one, concerns simplification by repealing certain measures which could lead to confusion. these are provisions adopted in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and form part of the schengen acquis. i am absolutely opposed to the schengen agreements, but i support this simplification approach and have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the repeal of certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the union institutions are currently implementing. some legal measures are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. they should therefore be deleted from the legislation in force.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report, but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. a number of acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which form part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant due to their temporary nature. they should therefore be repealed.
in writing. i supported this report to approve the commission's decision to repeal legislative acts rendered obsolete by the integration of the schengen acquis into the european treaties. the aim is to withdraw from union law acts governing criminal law relations between member states, since they were designed as transitional provisions or their content was transcribed in subsequent acts, in particular in the treaty of lisbon in 2009. the repeal of obsolete acts is necessary in order to simplify european legislation.
in writing. this report, like the previous one, concerns simplification by repealing certain measures which could lead to confusion. these are provisions adopted in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and form part of the schengen acquis. i am absolutely opposed to the schengen agreements, but i support this simplification approach and have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted to repeal this text because it had become legally obsolete. we must adopt clear texts to effectively strengthen our area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which proposes to change the type of legislative act so that this decision becomes a regulation; in addition, an addition in the title states that the repealed acts in question are part of the schengen acquis. a regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member states. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts forming part of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken over by subsequent acts. in the interests of transparency and 'better regulation', they must be repealed. voting against this text is pointless, since it would be the same as keeping obsolete acts, whereas this report does not call schengen into question. these are acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report also aims to repeal obsolete acts; but unlike the other two moraes reports, these acts are not linked to the schengen acquis. once again, the legal clarification by repealing obsolete acts or those which overlap with other legal texts is a good thing. however, we cannot support the federalisation of powers, especially in such sensitive areas as police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. so my colleagues from the national front and i have logically decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text, which changes nothing: it simply repeals acts that have become obsolete, either because they were temporary or because their content was taken up in subsequent acts. these acts concerned police and judicial cooperation... which brussels refuses to strengthen in a lasting way.
in writing. ‒ police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are, a priori, relevant ideas, particularly in the climate of insecurity that has characterised europe in recent years. the repeal of obsolete acts in this field therefore seems to be a matter of effectiveness. i am in favour of this type of cooperation between member states, but i have had to abstain on this text which threatens the sovereignty of our nations by the temptation to federate essential powers in the field of security. it should be recalled that police and judicial cooperation is never as effective as when it is maintained by sovereign states, which have both proximity, knowledge of the terrain and also an intermediary capacity that is not available to supranational organizations; for example, in the case of the terrorists responsible for the paris attacks, it was operational intelligence, coupled with information provided by moroccan intelligence services that helped neutralize abaaoud. the obvious failure of federal europe in all areas, and particularly in the area of security, has therefore led me to abstain on this text, which, as is often the case, was nevertheless based on a good intention of bringing it into legal conformity.
in writing. ‒ this concerns the repeal of acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, but unrelated to the schengen acquis. although i am not opposed to police and judicial cooperation between member states, i remain committed to national sovereignty and do not want these powers to be federalised.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. in the interests of transparency, the report recommends that they be repealed, in particular in order to lighten and simplify the current legislation. these repeals are logical and we consider that it would be unwise to maintain these acts in their present form. although we are not opposed to balanced police and judicial cooperation between the member states, particularly in the fight against islamist fundamentalism, a real scourge of the 21st century, we believe that this proposal is similar to a federalisation of powers in criminal matters. i am firmly committed to national sovereignty and abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to repeal certain obsolete acts in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters. these acts concern joint actions, the convention on the revocation of driving licences and the european evidence warrant. it also recommended that the legal nature of the commission proposal be changed from a decision to a union regulation, which was considered more appropriate to guarantee the immediate and complete repeal of these acts in all member states. i support these objectives and the technical amendments and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. as these acts have become obsolete, i support this measure as it contributes to greater clarity of european legislation in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote because the reference text is a federalist text which i do not recognise.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 24 november, i voted in favour of three reports aimed at repealing certain acts of the schengen acquis. these texts aim to repeal a number of legal measures relating to the area of freedom, security and justice and legal provisions in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which have become obsolete. the acts repealed here are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up in subsequent acts. the aim is to ensure consistency and to improve the transparency of union law in order to better legislate in the interests of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to repeal the schengen acquis acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which have become obsolete because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. it is not at all a question of calling into question what is working in schengen, but of simplifying european regulation, which i have often deplored for its burdens and inconsistencies. but this vote allows me to renew my appeal for realism. my party has long called for a re-design of schengen to adapt to new realities and new threats that transcend national borders. the urgent need is for increased control of the external borders and systematic checks on third country nationals, but also on european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this text repeals obsolete acts which are not linked to the schengen acquis. once again, the legal clarification by repealing obsolete acts or those which overlap with other legal texts is a good thing. however, we cannot support the federalisation of powers, particularly in the areas of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr claude moraes, on the repeal of certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. some acts of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters were temporary or were incorporated into other acts subsequently. it was therefore appropriate to repeal them in the interests of clarity and simplification of the acts. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it allows the repeal of obsolete acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation. the aim was to improve transparency, clarity and to demonstrate consistency for better european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i approved the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain obsolete acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in order to improve the wording of the act, we also introduced amendments to clarify the position of the united kingdom and justify the use of a regulation for the repeal of certain legal acts. the republicans and i are also calling for a major overhaul of the schengen agreements, which are inadequate in their present form and functioning to the reality of the threats facing the countries of the union today.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. in the interests of transparency and 'better regulation', they must be repealed. however, recent events have once again demonstrated that police and judicial cooperation at eu level is lacking. the police services of the member states must cooperate, but i am opposed to any attempt to make security policy a community matter. that is why i abstained on the proposal to repeal certain acts.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. these are acts adopted in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, acts unrelated to the schengen acquis. we are not opposed to police and judicial cooperation between member states, quite the contrary, but the decision to cooperate must come from the member states themselves. we are defending national sovereignty and we do not want these powers to be federalised.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the commission proposes to repeal a number of legislative acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which have become obsolete mainly since the integration of the schengen acquis directly into the european treaties. thus, 'council joint action 97/339/jha enabled cooperation and established information sharing between member states at large-scale events involving large numbers of people from several member states, in order to ensure public order and security, to protect persons and their property, and to prevent wrongdoing' is deleted as it became obsolete with the entry into force of council decisions 2008/615/jha, 2002/348/jha and 2007/412/jha which established new rules on the exchange of personal data, other forms of cooperation for the maintenance of public order and security at major events. although this is a technical report aimed at 'simplifying' eu law, i am voting against it to show my disagreement with these ineffective measures.
in writing. ‒ this report also aims to repeal obsolete acts; but this time it is about police and judicial cooperation. the repeal of obsolete acts or acts which overlap with other legal texts allows for effective legal clarification. however, the front national is not in favour of a federalisation of powers in criminal matters, putting at risk the state's precious sovereignty in such an area. the honourable member is therefore abstaining on this matter.
in writing. ‒ these are acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, but have no connection with the schengen acquis. although we are not opposed to police and judicial cooperation between member states, we remain committed to national sovereignty and do not want the federalisation of these powers, which is why we abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report, like the previous ones, is part of a simplification process and aims to repeal certain acts that have become less relevant because they were subsequently challenged. this time it concerns police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, but it is not related to the schengen acquis. while i am not opposed to cooperation between the judicial and police authorities of the member states of the european union, i remain committed to national sovereignty. i therefore believe that this must be done through bilateral agreements and not through brussels. i therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the repeal of certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. improving the transparency of union law is an essential element of the better law-making strategy that the union institutions are currently implementing. some legal measures are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. they should therefore be deleted from the legislation in force.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report, but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. a number of acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters have become obsolete as their content has been taken over by successive acts. they should therefore be repealed.
in writing. the report proposes to approve the repeal of a number of legislative acts relating to police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters between member states. the regulations in question governed, inter alia, the exchange of personal information between the customs and police authorities of the member states. however, the council subsequently adopted new rules on such exchanges of personal data, thus rendering the previous provisions obsolete. simplification of union law is necessary and those acts should therefore be repealed as they are no longer relevant. i voted in favour.
in writing. this report, like the previous ones, is part of a simplification process and aims to repeal certain acts which have become less relevant because they were subsequently challenged. this time it concerns police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, but it is not related to the schengen acquis. while i am not opposed to cooperation between the judicial and police authorities of the member states of the european union, i remain committed to national sovereignty. i therefore believe that this must be done through bilateral agreements and not through brussels. i therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted to repeal this text because it had become legally obsolete. we must adopt clear texts to effectively strengthen our area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which calls for the repeal of certain acts whose content has been taken up in subsequent acts. the european union is to improve its effectiveness and its actions in the areas of the register of competences in the fight against terrorism; the determination of the chemical characteristics of drugs; the register of competences in the fight against organised crime; the fight against drug addiction and drug trafficking; cooperation in the field of public order and security and cooperation between customs authorities.
in writing. ‒ a number of acts are no longer relevant because of their temporary nature or because their content has been taken up by subsequent acts. these are acts adopted in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. while we are not opposed to police and judicial cooperation between member states, we remain committed to national sovereignty and do not want these powers to be federalised. voting against this text is pointless, since it would be tantamount to keeping obsolete acts. i therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to get the european union to join the regional organisation of the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). the union would thus extend its protection of bluefin tuna to the indian ocean. there are two problems. the first is our opposition in principle to this transfer of sovereignty which would force the member states to align themselves with the position of brussels. the second problem is that european vessels are prohibited from catching more than 10 tonnes of southern bluefin tuna as by-catch (i.e. when longliners accidentally catch some). finally, the annual cost of participation in this organisation is estimated at eur 70 000. i believe that the protection of tuna is necessary, but i do not think that the union's accession is really justified. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is intended to allow the exchange of letters between the european union and the enlarged commission of the southern bottom bluefin tuna convention (sbctb). the signing of this international instrument will enable the european union to become a full member of the enlarged ccsbt from its current status as a cooperating non-contracting party. this new cooperation is in line with the policy of the european union, which is very active in all regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo) in order to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ the southern bluefin tuna quotas allocated to our vessels do not exceed 10 tonnes and in reality cover only incidental catches. i do not think that this accession is really justified, so i have decided to abstain, in principle out of concern for the protection of fish stocks, in this case bluefin tuna in the indian ocean.
in writing. ‒ another missed act for the european union on this subject, which led me to abstain in the vote on this text. the first intention may indeed seem to be commendable, since it would a priori be to give the union a place in the discussions and votes on the monitoring and protection of bluefin tuna in the indian ocean, even though it has only been a non-contracting party to that convention since 2006; however, the argument of defending european interests in this area is not valid when we know that the union has already been allocated a quota of 10 tonnes of southern bluefin tuna, but only as by-catch. given that the annual participation in this organization is estimated at eur 70 000 and that this amount is related to the low quantities of southern bluefin tuna caught by european vessels, no real added value can be achieved by full membership of this committee. finally, this would also be to the detriment of national industries, since if the european union acceded to the convention, the member states would be forced to align themselves with the official positions of the union.
in writing. ‒ given the accidental nature of the catches of bluefin tuna in the waters of the indian ocean by european fishing vessels, we consider that this issue is not of strategic interest to the union. on the other hand, the sum of eur 70 000 of contributions to join this convention could be more usefully allocated. the 10 tonnes of fishing quota we have will not be affected in any case. we will nevertheless be following the evolution of bluefin tuna stocks in the indian ocean with interest. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the southern bluefin tuna conservation commission is an organisation responsible for the management and protection of this species. since 2006, the european union has been a non-contracting party to the convention, which entered into force in 1994. the report calls on the union to accede to the convention in order to have the right to affiliate to and vote in the committee, with the aim of strengthening european action in the protection of bluefin tuna. we are in favour of protecting this species and of regulating the fishing for bluefin tuna, particularly in the indian ocean. however, we are well aware that the member states will have to align their position with that of the european union in the event of accession, which will limit our national sovereignty. the union's accession, even with a view to monitoring and protecting the bluefin tuna stocks in the indian ocean, is not really justified, since the southern bluefin tuna quotas allocated to our vessels do not exceed 10 tonnes and in reality cover only incidental catches. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna in all its areas of distribution. the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna entered into force on 20 may 1994. on 1 december 2009, the council authorised the european commission to request, on behalf of the european union, an amendment to the ccstb regulation in order to allow the european union to become a contracting party. since vessels flying the flag of the member states of the union exploit resources in the southern bluefin tuna area, it is in the interest of the union to play an effective role in the implementation of the convention. i voted in favour of this report which will allow the european union to join and vote in the enlarged ccsbt and the enlarged scientific committee.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report gives a positive opinion on the draft council decision on the accession of the european union to the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). as the union is very active in regional organisations on the issue of sound and sustainable management of marine resources and in the fight against illegal fishing, i support this accession which should strengthen the union's influence within the ccsbt by giving it a voting right. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i supported this report because the european union's membership of the enlarged commission of the southern bluefin tuna convention is accompanied by the right to vote in that commission. this measure will thus allow the union to assert its influence in the field of bluefin tuna fishing.
in writing. ‒ the report aimed to change the status of the european union vis-à-vis the enlarged commission of the southern bottom bluefin tuna convention (sbctb). by establishing a contractual relationship between the union and the ccsbt, the report sought to have the union join that committee. the union would thus have had a greater say in the national fisheries policies of the member states. this transfer of sovereignty in secret is obviously unacceptable, which is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because it does not really take european interests into account.
in writing. ‒ the european union is joining the regional organisation of the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). the union wants to extend its action in the protection of bluefin tuna to the indian ocean. the union's accession would inevitably lead to the alignment of national regulations of its member states, which would take on all the features of a smooth slide into sovereignty. for the last ten years, the european market has been restricted to imports of 10 tonnes of southern bluefin tuna, which is mainly and only from by-catch. if we compare this figure with the annual participation fee of eur 70 000 for this organisation, we are entitled to consider that this initiative is not very relevant in its very principle, but even less so in the light of european interests. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague carlos iturgaiz on the recommendation on the accession of the union to the enlarged commission of the southern bluefin tuna convention. the european union was at that time a non-contracting party and therefore could not vote in the committee. the union will be able to play a more important and effective role in the implementation of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it approves the accession of the european union to the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt), thereby granting the union a voting right, which will enable it to take an active part in the implementation of the convention on the conservation of this species.
in writing. ‒ in the event of the union's accession to the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, member states will be invited to align their positions with the union's. so this is a small transfer of sovereignty 'underground', which i am opposed to on principle. since 2006, the union has been allocated a quota of 10 tonnes of southern bluefin tuna, but only as by-catches (i.e. when caught by longliners by accident). the annual contribution to this organisation, estimated at eur 70 000, does not therefore seem relevant in view of the low quantities of southern bluefin tuna caught by union vessels. however, it is important to keep an eye on the stock's development. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the text concerned the eu's membership of this committee, which is responsible for managing bluefin tuna stocks in the indian ocean. while the importance of keeping an eye on this problem is obvious, it is not an issue we want to see attributed to the european union. first, if the eu were to join this commission (of which it has been a non-contracting member since 2006), the member states would have to align themselves with the european positions. it is a transfer of national sovereignty that we do not name, and we are opposed to it on principle. in addition, since 2006, the eu has been allocated a quota of 10 tonnes of bluefin tuna, provided that these are by-catches or incidental catches. membership of this committee would involve an annual contribution from the union of approximately eur 70 000. this is too heavy a commitment, given the small interest of 10 tonnes of 'accidental' fish caught by and for the eu. i therefore abstained on that vote.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. the aim of this vote is to get the union to join the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt), whose convention has been in force since 1994 and to which the union was until now a non-contracting party. we believe that the union's accession, even for the purpose of monitoring and protecting bluefin tuna stocks, is not justified by european interests: the union has only a bluefin tuna fishing quota of 10 tonnes (only as incidental catches), and the annual participation in the ccsbt costs 70 000 euros, a far too high sum for such a small quantity. it should also be noted that if the union joins this organisation, the member states will have to align themselves with the union and will lose a small part of their sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ecsct), set up in 1994, aims to ensure, through good management, the conservation and optimum use of southern bluefin tuna. until 2013, only states could accede to the ccsbt convention; regional economic integration organisations (reaos), such as the european union, were therefore excluded. these organisations are now allowed to join. the text before us is intended to allow the union to join this committee in order to strengthen its commitment to the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources worldwide. i am concerned about the fisheries issue and i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the union is to join the regional organisation of the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). the union wants to extend its action in the protection of bluefin tuna to the indian ocean. the accession of the union would inevitably lead to the standardisation of national regulations in this field and a further loss of sovereignty. for the last ten years, the european market has been restricted to imports of 10 tonnes of southern bluefin tuna, which are mainly from accidental catches. at the same time, the annual fee for membership of the organisation is €70,000. it therefore appears to the front national that this initiative is not relevant and not a priority. therefore, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to get the union to accede to the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna so that it has the right to join and vote on it. the main objective is to strengthen the union's action in the protection of bluefin tuna, bearing in mind the similarities between the management of southern (indian) and atlantic bluefin tuna. this accession is not really justified by european interests. the quota allocated to our vessels for bluefin tuna from the south does not exceed 10 tonnes and in reality covers only incidental catches. for this reason, we abstain.
in writing. ‒ this iturgaiz report concerns the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna. the commission (ccsbt) is a regional fisheries organisation responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna. the union has been a non-contracting party to it since 2006. the aim of this report is therefore to bring it into line with the 1994 convention establishing the commission, so that it can be affiliated to and vote in the ccsbt. however, several problems arise, such as the obligation to adopt a single position for all the countries of the union, thus characterizing a new transfer of sovereignty. in addition, since 2006, the union has been allocated a quota of only 10 tonnes of southern bluefin tuna. the participation in this organisation is estimated at 70,000 euros, which is hardly worth it. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the union has initiated a legal procedure with a view to acceding to the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). to the extent that vessels flying the flag of member states exploit resources in the area covered by that convention, it is in the interest of the union to play an effective role in its implementation. that is why i voted in favour of this text, which will enable the council to conclude the procedure which it has started, at the end of which the union will have the right to join and vote in the ccsbt.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) is a regional fisheries management organisation responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna in all its areas of distribution. the european union is a cooperating non-contracting party to the btwc. on 1 december 2009, the council authorised the european commission to request, on behalf of the european union, an amendment to the ccstb regulation in order to allow the european union to become a contracting party. this report is about approving this accession.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report to approve the accession of the european union to the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt). the ccsbt is an international organisation responsible for the management of bluefin tuna stocks in all the marine areas where bluefin tuna are present. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's fisheries policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's fisheries policy.
in writing. this iturgaiz report concerns the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna. the commission (ccsbt) is a regional fisheries organisation responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna. the union has been a non-contracting party to it since 2006. the aim of this report is therefore to bring it into line with the 1994 convention establishing the commission, so that it can be affiliated to and vote in the ccsbt. however, several problems arise, such as the obligation to adopt a single position for all the countries of the union, thus characterizing a new transfer of sovereignty. in addition, since 2006, the union has been allocated a quota of only 10 tonnes of southern bluefin tuna. the participation in this organisation is estimated at 70,000 euros, which is hardly worth it. so i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report for the european union to join the enlarged commission of the southern bluefin tuna convention. it is logical that the european union should be able to join as an entity, it has an interest in it. european vessels are working in the southern bluefin tuna area. this will enable it to play an effective role in the implementation of the convention.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text on the accession of the european commission to the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) responsible for the management of southern bluefin tuna in all its areas of distribution. at its 20th meeting in october 2013, the cscwt amended the resolution on the enlarged commission to allow the european union to become a member of the cscwt, by means of an exchange of letters. indeed, the union has been a cooperating non-contracting party to the btwc until now. it is important that the union plays an effective role in the implementation of the convention as vessels flying the flag of the member states of the union exploit resources in the southern bluefin tuna area. once this procedure is completed, the european union will have the right to affiliate to and vote in the enlarged ccsbt and the enlarged scientific committee.
in writing. ‒ this accession of the european union, even to monitor and protect bluefin tuna stocks in the indian ocean, is not really justified by european interests. the quota allocated to our vessels for bluefin tuna from the south does not exceed 10 tonnes and in reality covers only incidental catches. i therefore choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report supports the regulation of the insurance intermediation market in favour of policyholders and the self-employed. it amends the mif2 directive and the basis for the practice of the brokerage profession, in particular as regards the definition of an independent intermediary. insurance companies and banks will no longer be able to stifle independent advisers and monopolize the profession. it was urgent that the european parliament should remove the powers of the banking and insurance lobbies. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to inform insurance consumers about the nature of the distributor's remuneration and, for certain complex life insurance products, the total cost of the insurance contract, including advice and service charges.
in writing. ‒ the report supports regulation of the insurance intermediation market in favour of policyholders and the self-employed. it substantially amends the mif2 directive and the basis for the exercise of the brokerage profession. insurance companies and banks will no longer be able to stifle independent advisers and monopolize the profession. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which seems to me to be moving in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which calls for a revision of the dia1 directive on insurance intermediation from a consumer protection perspective. it offers comprehensive regulation of the insurance sector by integrating all intermediaries, which ensures more complete information for customers. the new directive, known as dia2, extends its scope to all distribution channels for insurance products, thus updating the legal framework by taking account of new players such as bank insurers, comparators, travel agencies or any other intermediary. the registration process is also subject to new conditions to create a single register that will centralise information on market players. finally, the requirements for professional competence and the duty to advise are strengthened. the report is therefore in the interests of consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ this intermediation directive (iad2) follows up on the dia1 directive of 9 december 2002, which was intended to strengthen competition and regulation in the field of insurance intermediation. the 2008 financial crisis exposed the shortcomings of the old legislation, in particular in terms of market distortions. this is why the new directive is so important, since it extends its scope to all the distribution channels for insurance products. dia2 also recommends that clients be better informed about the remuneration of sales representatives and the risk of capital loss they incur on certain financial investments. we welcome this new directive which supports the selfemployed in their dealings with the large financial institutions. registered insurance intermediaries will now be allowed to take up and pursue the business of insurance intermediation in the union under both the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services. finally, we are pleased to see that customers will benefit from better information on the increasingly complex financial products they subscribe to. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on insurance distribution. it is important that insurance policyholders benefit from a high-quality service on the european market. it was essential to harmonise the rules applicable to insurance distributors and intermediaries in order to increase the level of transparency and consumer protection. information will be more important for customers to make informed choices about their products. distributors and intermediaries will have to register with the competent authority of the home member state in order to create a register of their identity. all these rules will contribute to a more transparent and efficient insurance market.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to review existing legislation on insurance intermediation, with the aim of providing a level playing field for all actors involved in the sale of insurance products and strengthening the protection of insurance contract holders. the new text will provide insurance consumers and investors with greater transparency on insurance product prices and more accurate and comprehensive information on insurance products, enabling them to make informed choices when making purchases. they may also decide not to take out insurance when it is offered as a supplement to the purchase of a good or service (e.g. a car). i have voted in favour of this report because i believe it will help to strengthen consumer protection.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which provides for stricter requirements on information and protection of policyholders. the updating of european provisions in this area will raise european standards and introduce new sanctions against insurance providers, thus offering more security to insurance subscribers.
in writing. ‒ to better protect consumers in the insurance sector, it is imperative to consolidate a common legislative framework. the new european provisions improve the obligations of insurance distributors in europe towards their customers. they will now have to be registered with a competent national authority. intermediaries will have to clearly mention information about their products and in particular their cost.
in writing. ‒ this report validated the directive which aimed to create greater competition within the single market, while standardising services. by seeking to regulate the insurance sector and all its intermediaries more closely, the union is once again interfering in national affairs and civil society. and while the original idea was laudable because it related to consumer protection, the causes of this dysfunction are primarily the single market. i therefore abstained from voting, not wishing to support the european single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it goes against the mif 2 directive, which i oppose.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 24 november, i voted in favour of a text to strengthen the rules governing the insurance sector within two years, in order to better control the activity of brokers and other intermediaries and to improve the information provided to consumers. more than 70% of insurance products are sold without adequate advice to the consumer. the text will require insurance salesmen to register with the authorities in their country, but also with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, based in frankfurt, which will check that they are properly qualified.
in writing. ‒ this text promotes regulation of the insurance intermediation market in favour of policyholders and the self-employed. the report amends the mif2 directive and the foundations of the practice of the brokerage profession, in particular as regards the definition of an independent intermediary. insurance companies and banks will no longer be able to stifle independent advisers and monopolize the profession. the objective of regulating the entire insurance sector by including all intermediaries and providing customers with more complete information is a real step forward which we welcome. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr werner langen, on insurance intermediation. the report sets out a new directive on insurance distribution, to better organise the business of insurance intermediaries. these professions will have to comply with requirements relating to information, advice and customer protection and will be obliged to be registered in their home member state in order to be able to practise anywhere in europe. this will make it easier and safer for consumers to buy insurance. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to strengthen consumer protection in the insurance sector and, more specifically, to control the activity of insurance intermediaries and brokers by imposing on them a number of obligations, in particular relating to information and the transparency of offers. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance intermediation. the report supports the regulation of the insurance intermediation market in favour of policyholders and the selfemployed. it substantially amends the mif2 directive and the basis for the exercise of the brokerage profession. the insurance companies and banks will no longer be able to stifle independent advisers and monopolize this professional activity, which is a good thing.
in writing. - i voted yes. this intermediation directive (iad 2) follows on from the dia directive of 1 december 2002 which aimed at greater competition in the single market while standardising the products offered to consumers, all with a check on the competence and integrity of intermediaries. dia 2 is a reworking of dia 1, which it extends the scope of action to include newer actors offering insurance such as bank insurers, comparators, travel agencies ... it also strengthens the requirements for professional competence and their duty to advise. this will allow the entire insurance sector to be regulated and provide customers with the most complete information possible, while avoiding the banking lobbies.
in writing. ‒ insurance or reinsurance intermediation is the activity of presenting, proposing or assisting in the conclusion of insurance or reinsurance contracts or in carrying out other preparatory work for their conclusion. the report before us aims to clarify and introduce new elements of harmonization of the work of insurance intermediaries within the european union. the main aim of the text, which strengthens the control of these intermediaries, is to promote a genuine internal market for life and non-life insurance products and services. i am opposed to the increasing penetration of the markets by private insurance schemes and i shall abstain on this text which regulates them on the margin.
in writing. ‒ the report supports regulation of the insurance intermediation market in favour of policyholders and the self-employed. it substantially amends the mif2 directive and the basis for the exercise of the brokerage profession, in particular as regards the definition of an independent intermediary. insurance companies and banks will no longer be able to stifle independent advisers and monopolize the profession. it is time that the european parliament stopped giving all the power to the banking and insurance lobbies and allowed the same competent people to do this job in a sustainable way. i therefore welcome the intelligence of this report. the objective of regulating the entire insurance sector by including all intermediaries and providing customers with more complete information is a real step forward. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the amendment of the insurance intermediation directive (iad1) of 2002 which was intended to allow for greater competition in the single market. however, the implementation of dia1 has been complicated and has created market distortions, and the 2008 financial crisis has led to increased stability in the insurance market. dia2 therefore aims to correct the shortcomings of dia1 by providing better protection for the policyholder and better regulation of the insurance intermediation business. first, dia2 extends its scope to all insurance distribution channels and the registration process is changed to create a single register. dia2 also provides for the provision to the customer or for the search of new information such as the way in which the seller is remunerated and the status of the intermediary. the requirements for professional competence and the duty to advise are strengthened. finally, by adopting the measures provided for in the mifid directive, dia2 incorporates the verification of the client's financial and insurance skills and the provision of capital loss risks to the subscriber.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the insurance intermediation directive (iiad), which follows on from the 2002 iad1 which was intended to allow for greater competition in the single market while standardising the products made available to consumers and imposing controls on the competence of intermediaries. the 2008 crisis revealed the shortcomings of this system and the very loose interpretation of the member states of the dia1. in 2012, the commission therefore adopted dia2, which extends its scope to all distribution channels for the newly emerging insurance products that form the basis of shadow banking. transparency measures for the customer are also provided, such as information on the way the seller is remunerated and the status of the intermediary. the question of the conflict of interest of brokers is also raised. i think that these are provisions which are designed to make things more transparent for consumers, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on insurance intermediation. the text, adopted by a very large majority, confirms an agreement reached in the trilogue on 30 june 2015 which establishes a new directive on insurance distribution, replacing the one from 2002. the aim is to improve the organization of the professions in this sector and, in particular, to strengthen the requirements for the professionalism, financial capacity and integrity of insurance intermediaries. i support this text which calls for easy access to the contact details of registered insurance and reinsurance intermediaries and will allow for better protection of customers.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. it endorses a trilogue agreement reached on 30 june 2015 which establishes a new insurance distribution directive. the recast directive makes it possible to strengthen the requirements and recalibrate them according to the trades covered. the main objectives shall be to ensure the professionalism and competence of insurance intermediaries, the protection of the interests of clients, and compliance with minimum professional requirements, such as easy public access to the contact details of registered insurance and reinsurance intermediaries. and adequate and effective out-of-court dispute resolution procedures.
in writing. this report concerns the insurance intermediation directive (iad2) which follows on from the 2002 dia1 which was intended to allow for greater competition in the single market while standardising the products made available to the consumer and imposing controls on the competence of intermediaries. the 2008 crisis revealed the shortcomings of this system and the very loose interpretation of the member states of the dia1. in 2012, the commission therefore adopted dia2, which extends its scope to all distribution channels for the newly emerging insurance products that form the basis of shadow banking. transparency measures for the customer are also provided, such as information on the way the seller is remunerated and the status of the intermediary. the question of the conflict of interest of brokers is also raised. i think that these are provisions which are designed to make things more transparent for consumers, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ we have reached agreement in the trilogue on this directive, which will make the 2002 insurance intermediation directive more effective and strengthen it. it was important to support this text in order to organise the professions, and in particular those of insurance intermediaries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which makes it easier and safer to take out insurance. the text aims to modernise the 2002 directive by strengthening the european provisions on information and advice provided by insurance sales staff. the commission has therefore introduced revised requirements in terms of consumer information and protection. insurance distributors will be required to provide clear information on the costs of an insurance contract, including costs related to their consultancy activities. consumers should receive all information relating to insurance contracts in clear and simple language. in parallel, and in order to increase consumer protection, insurance intermediaries will have to register with the competent authority in each member state. i therefore supported this report, which guarantees insurance policyholders better information, clearer and more transparent advice and better protection.
in writing. ‒ the report supports the regulation of the insurance intermediation market in favour of policyholders and the self-employed. it substantially amends the mif2 directive and the basis for the exercise of the brokerage profession. insurance companies and banks will no longer be able to stifle independent advisers and monopolize the profession. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this proposal fully incorporates the provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of the child: education, health, housing, protection, leisure, free time, nutrition and care in the family environment. the european parliament considers that child poverty continues to increase in the union and calls on the commission to act by increasing the esf allocations and applying the principle of the european minimum income (european parliament resolution 2010 no 2010/2039 ini). the member states are asked to extend free access to public education to children in general, etc. of course, the poverty of children is outrageous. but the first thing to do is to look at the causes of poverty: broken families, widespread unemployment, unhealthy neighborhoods, uncontrolled immigration. the state can no longer afford to maintain its public services. the demand that these should be universal and free is unthinkable in the present situation. the fight against poverty starts with a return to full employment and a stable traditional family model. i voted in favour of the new proposal put forward by my colleague from the front national, dominique marti. the commission did not obtain a majority, so i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the member states to step up their efforts to combat social inequalities, in particular child poverty. see our map for more information on the figures in the various countries.
in writing. ‒ the wise proposal for another resolution tabled by my group, europe of nations and freedoms, having been rejected, i voted against this text proposed by the vice-chair of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, inês cristina zuber. we cannot have a plenary session without at least one report on the disastrous 'gender theory'. it is not surprising that i voted against the report by that portuguese communist.
in writing. ‒ the zuber report has unfortunately fallen victim to its good intentions. the text, which takes as its starting point the fact that child poverty has increased considerably in europe in recent years, makes a series of unrealistic proposals, but it is wrong about the basic premise. the proposal covers all the rights of the child, and in particular those mentioned in the united nations convention on the rights of the child. however, the rapporteur zuber forgets that the well-being of the child depends on the family environment and that a viable solution to the problem of child poverty cannot be found without combating the professional and social precariousness of parents. that is why i voted against this proposal and supported the one tabled by dominique martin on behalf of the enl group. more realistically, my colleague's other motion for a resolution recalls that it is by tackling parental unemployment in europe that the future of children will be secured. it should also be remembered that it is european austerity policies which are responsible for the decline of national social policies. the member states must therefore be given back the power to take decisions in this area, so that they can implement genuine reforms of the education and health systems for the benefit of children.
in writing. ‒ child poverty has increased significantly in europe with the increase in social inequalities resulting from the austerity measures applied in most member states. the report recommends that the commission introduce a european minimum income, increase the esf budget and be more lenient with the member states in terms of budgetary discipline. the rapporteur also calls on the national authorities to guarantee free public schooling and free public transport for children. national governments are also required to improve public services and increase the number of social housing. after imposing ultra-austerity policies in all the member states of the union, the european institutions are playing the role of the pyromaniac fireman. the recommendations are not applicable in a period of structural crisis aggravated by a totally uncontrolled migratory pressure. that is why dominique martin, on behalf of the enf group, tabled another motion for a resolution to introduce national preference in the allocation of social benefits in order to directly benefit our most vulnerable citizens, who are victims of the consequences of unbridled globalisation and ultra-liberal policies in the european union. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the united nations convention on the rights of the child provides that all children are guaranteed the right to education, health services, housing, protection, recreation and leisure, as well as a balanced diet and care in a family environment. however, there are still many problems with respect for children's rights in europe. the report highlights these shortcomings and proposes some measures to eliminate child poverty and social exclusion. we must ensure that children live in the best possible conditions both inside and outside the european union. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes measures to eliminate child poverty and social exclusion, which the un says are increasingly threatened in europe. between 2008 and 2012, the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion in europe increased by almost one million. in 2013, 26.5 million children in the union were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. focusing on the causes of child poverty and its elimination, the report proposes to establish indicators to better assess poverty, social exclusion, discrimination and participation in public life. i voted in favour of the objectives of this text and the emphasis on education and training.
in writing. the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion is increasing in the european economic area. it is therefore necessary for the union to act to address the economic and social causes of child poverty and to develop indicators to better assess this phenomenon. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ young people under 18 are now most at risk of social exclusion. in europe too many children today lack access to education, health care, nutrition and well-being activities. it is essential that the commission and the member states take action to combat these scourges. this fight will only be effective if sufficient resources are allocated to it. in this respect, the creation of a european fund specifically dedicated to reducing child poverty is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ child poverty and social exclusion are increasing as social inequalities increase: children born in economically disadvantaged neighbourhoods or regions, whose parents have a low level of education or employment, are more likely to have limited access to health and education services. i therefore voted for the zuber report on reducing inequalities, in particular child poverty. this resolution recommends that member states increase the quantity, amounts, scope and effectiveness of social assistance specifically targeted at children while developing preventive social policies aimed at preventing child poverty. i welcome the adoption of this report which will provide the necessary support to guarantee all children the right to health, culture, sport and leisure.
in writing. ‒ the report aimed to reduce child poverty worldwide. nevertheless, while child poverty is a problem that cannot be ignored, it is primarily the fault of the parents. it is essential to focus on the income of the parents, who are solely responsible for their children. the european union has no business interfering with the family relationships and structure of single parents. finally, since gender theory is still wrongly included here, i voted for the other proposal tabled by our group and i voted against the other proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the other proposal put forward by a colleague from our group was not taken into account.
in writing. more than one in four children in europe is at risk of poverty. this is unacceptable. that is why i supported the report on reducing child poverty. it proposes a comprehensive approach emphasising the need to create analytical tools and implement policies to combat these phenomena. the policies recommended are multidimensional and address the main factors of child poverty which are not only financial, thus providing a global view and approach to combating it. these concern both parents (through labour legislation, the fight against unemployment, social assistance), children's access to and attendance at school, their extracurricular activities, the necessary health care, housing and balanced nutrition. we also encourage the establishment of a follow-up of these policies by relevant tools, in order to pursue long-term and preventive actions, which will eradicate social inequalities and child poverty. finally, the resolution also aims to combat violence against children.
in writing. ‒ in one of the world's richest continents, child poverty has increased alarmingly, increasing by more than one million children between 2008 and 2012. these children are deprived of access to basic services such as education and health and suffer from exclusion, which increases inequality, school dropout and degradation. the european union, which has always been the first to denounce inequalities and poverty in the world, should perhaps take stock of its own actions or inaction and assess the effectiveness of the billions of euros spent for decades on cohesion policy, in particular, in the european social fund (esf). the impoverishment of the peoples of europe is an unacceptable trend which contributes to deepening the gap of misunderstanding towards a europe which claims to be committed to the rights and freedoms of european citizens but which, at the same time, fails to demonstrate this. however, the primary responsibility for this failure lies not with the union, which is ultimately without competence in matters of social and educational policy, but with the member states and the territorial authorities, which have failed to react properly to this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ parliament's motion for a resolution fully incorporates the rights already guaranteed by the united nations convention on the rights of the child, namely education, health, housing, protection, leisure, free time, nutrition and care in the family environment. the commission is invited in particular to increase the esf allocations and to apply the principle of the european minimum income (european parliament resolution 2010 no 2010/2039 ini). the member states are obliged to extend to children, in general, free access to the various guaranteed rights, such as education, transport, health care, leisure, etc. this proposal focuses on the child as an autonomous atom, to the detriment of the family, which is its first developmental environment, the second being society as a whole. on the one hand, the child's distress is usually directly related to that of his family, which is, on the other hand, indirectly related to the problems facing our states, which may be anything but economic. finally, the measures proposed are illusory in order to be implemented in the public finances of our states. i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of my colleague inês cristina zuber on reducing inequalities, particularly in the case of child poverty, which is increasing in europe. the european parliament therefore supports the increase in aid specifically targeted at children, while not forgetting parents. parliament also called on the member states to put in place preventive social policies and plans to reduce child poverty and to strengthen social rights and support for culture, sport and leisure. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ this report considers a number of measures to reduce inequalities, poverty and social exclusion among children in europe. it is mainly concerned with access to education and training. i voted in favour of this report, of course, because child poverty is unfortunately still a reality in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report on child poverty makes a clear statement. between 2008 and 2012, the number of children at risk of poverty increased sharply. as austerity policies have removed whole sections of social protection, there is no safety net left to prevent these children and their parents from falling into a situation of severe material deprivation. despite attacks from the right, who tried to rewrite the report, the rapporteur has been busy hijacking the economic surveillance frameworks to introduce clear objectives of fighting poverty and social exclusion. the solutions proposed are the defense of universal and free public services, the right to work that protects parents, and the definition of an unemployment allowance and a minimum income for each state. inês zuber calls for the creation of social indicators which are as important as the economic and budgetary objectives which constrain national budgets, but which will serve to push states and the european union to take action against poverty. i therefore welcome the broad adoption of this report, despite the opposition of the most conservative european elected representatives and the front national.
in writing. ‒ ms zuber's report on 'reducing inequalities, especially child poverty' is aberrant: it is a jumble of gender theory, inequalities, european interference and many unrealistic hopes. the error of the approach is glaring: the child's distress is linked to that of the parents, and this distress often turns out to be more social than economic. we talk about household income, but we don't talk about family. the proposed policy measures are unrealistic in a period of structural crisis aggravated by a totally uncontrolled migratory pressure. what state has the means to provide such universal and free services, even if only to its own citizens? i don't know.
in writing. - the fn mps voted against this report because it is confusing and unrealistic. furthermore, it is allied with the gender theory. it is a pity, because the theme of reducing inequality, in the commendable perspective of lifting children out of poverty, deserved better.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution. our group, the enf, has tabled another motion for a resolution to counter the aberrant suggestions in this text. the whole of this proposal is based on a masterly approach: the rapporteur is not pleased, but child poverty is first and foremost household poverty, and therefore we must act towards the parents. the rapporteur goes on to talk about the problems of household income, but he systematically forgets to mention families. the measures it proposes, a clever mixture of idealism, gender theory and immigration, are absolutely unrealistic in times of structural crisis! universal, free and high quality services in all areas is a great goal, but no country at present has the resources to achieve this dream.
in writing. ‒ this report provides a damning assessment of the situation of child poverty in the union. while one fifth of the total population of the union is under 18, more than one in four children is now at risk of poverty or social exclusion. to remedy this, the report stresses the role of the state in providing access to quality public services (particularly childcare, education, health, housing and leisure activities). it also calls for strengthening the "efficiency, quantity, amounts and scope of social aids specifically for children, but also for unemployed parents or poor workers such as unemployment benefits and an adequate minimum income". finally, it recalls that it is also a matter of "promoting labour legislation guaranteeing social rights, in particular a guaranteed minimum wage in accordance with national practices and collective agreements, which will bring greater security to families and combat precarious status". i am voting for this progressive text with no illusions about its consequences.
in writing. ‒ parliament's motion for a resolution fully incorporates the rights already guaranteed by the united nations convention on the rights of the child, namely education, health, housing, protection, leisure, free time, nutrition and care in the family environment. the commission is invited in particular to increase the esf allocations and to apply the principle of the european minimum income (european parliament resolution 2010 no 2010/2039 ini). the member states are obliged to extend to children, in general, free access to the various guaranteed rights, such as education, transport, health care, leisure, etc. this proposal focuses on the child as if he were independent, autonomous, outside any family unit, which is his first reference point, his immediate environment. his distress is thus, in most cases, directly linked to that of his family, which itself is sometimes accentuated by broader social or economic problems. finally, the proposed measures are not suited to fit into the public finances of each member state. that is why i am opposed to the text.
in writing. ‒ the enf group tabled another motion for a resolution which insists that child poverty is primarily the poverty of parents, and that they should therefore benefit from social policies. it is by lifting the parents out of poverty (through work or parental salary) that we will lift the children out of poverty. the proposal also removes any reference to gender theory, recalls the responsibility of european austerity policies, and calls for national preference in the establishment of future policies. it also calls for reform of the education and health systems, to make them more efficient and better adapted to the new reality. finally, whenever possible, it removes the commission's involvement and returns decision-making power to the member states. the rejection of the report implies that we abstain on the original report.
in writing. ‒ this zuber report is about reducing inequalities and in particular child poverty. indeed, the latter has increased considerably in recent years, due to austerity policies, cuts in health and pension spending, but also the eu's decades-long free trade policy, which has increased inequalities. it should also be remembered that emmanuel todd had predicted the collapse of the soviet system in 1976 by means of such misguided demographic indicators. the parliament therefore proposes, much too late, to put an end to budget cuts by abolishing the psc, to increase the esf allocations and to introduce a european minimum income. however, this report is incomplete. it focuses on the child, while it is also necessary to take an interest in the environment in which he lives (deterioration of the situation of parents, or even grandparents, since intergenerational solidarity plays a major role, which argues for the cessation of cuts in retirement pensions). the measures proposed are, moreover, largely utopian. it is totally inconsistent to want to welcome more migrants and therefore to devote more funds to this management while at the same time wanting to increase funds to reduce inequalities. i therefore decided to vote against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to reduce poverty in the eu and in particular to improve the living conditions of children living in poverty. the text calls on the member states to guarantee children universal, public, free and quality health care in the areas of prevention, vaccination and primary health care. it also calls on them to establish minimum standards for housing to meet the needs of children and ensure their well-being. i fully support the measure in this text which recommends that member states make better use of the resources of the european structural and investment funds (esi) in the development of their social policies, in order to achieve the objective of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people facing poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the zuber report to reduce inequalities, especially child poverty. according to the united nations convention on the rights of the child, all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health care, housing, protection, recreation and leisure, as well as a balanced diet and care in a family environment. however, these requirements of the un convention are not yet met for all children in the countries of the union, because according to reports on child poverty in europe, european children are also increasingly at risk of poverty and social exclusion. poverty and social exclusion not only lead to inadequate coverage of basic needs such as food and housing, but also for most people, lack of access to quality education and health services and the inability to participate in sporting, cultural and leisure activities. the draft report proposes a number of measures to eliminate child poverty and social exclusion, which are far from unanimous in the committee.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report, but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. he brings interesting ideas to lift children out of poverty. nevertheless, as relevant as it is, the problem of child poverty cannot be solved without an overall improvement in the living standards of the populations of the least developed countries.
in writing. i supported this report which takes an alarming stock of the situation of poverty and social exclusion experienced by one in four children in the european union and calls for a strengthened european policy to combat child poverty. the report stresses in particular the responsibility of member states to provide quality public services and strengthened and better adapted social assistance systems to combat the risks of isolation, social exclusion or vulnerability of children and their families. i welcome the reference to the situation of the outermost regions, which should not be left out of the consideration of improving the efficiency and quality of child protection systems, since these regions are also particularly affected by poverty-related problems.
in writing. this zuber report is about reducing inequalities and in particular child poverty. indeed, the latter has increased considerably in recent years, due to austerity policies, cuts in health and pension spending, but also the eu's decades-long free trade policy, which has increased inequalities. it should also be remembered that emmanuel todd had predicted the collapse of the soviet system in 1976 by means of such misguided demographic indicators. the parliament therefore proposes, much too late, to put an end to budget cuts by abolishing the psc, to increase the esf allocations and to introduce a european minimum income. however, this report is incomplete. it focuses on the child, while it is also necessary to take an interest in the environment in which he lives (deterioration of the situation of parents, or even grandparents, since intergenerational solidarity plays a major role, which argues for the cessation of cuts in retirement pensions). the measures proposed are, moreover, largely utopian. it is totally inconsistent to want to welcome more migrants and therefore to devote more funds to this management while wanting to increase funds to reduce inequalities. i therefore decided to vote against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we had to send a clear message, in particular to fight child poverty. i would stress that we too, unlike some of our colleagues, should take a position in favour of guaranteeing women access to sexual and reproductive health rights. it was important to emphasize that.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution to reduce inequalities, especially child poverty. the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased significantly in recent years in europe, reaching 26.5 million in 2013. today, more than one in four children in the union is at risk of falling into poverty or exclusion. in addition, inequalities continue to grow between european countries, and the percentage of children suffering from malnutrition is increasing. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to set targets for reducing poverty and social exclusion and to put in place multi-dimensional plans to achieve these targets, paying particular attention to children who are most at risk. education can play an important role in achieving these objectives; it is therefore important to ensure that all children have access to a quality public education, open to all, at all ages, and to combat early school leaving. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to identify the causes and propose measures to reduce inequalities, in particular poverty and social exclusion of children. the text recalls that, according to the un convention on the rights of the child, all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health, housing and protection. these fundamental rights are not guaranteed to european children in practice. between 2008 and 2012, the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union increased by one million. in view of this alarming figure, the draft report therefore proposes measures to combat social exclusion of children effectively: an increase in the quantity, amount, extent and effectiveness of social assistance, the development of preventive social policies and plans to prevent and reduce child poverty, and an increase in the allocations of the european social fund. these measures would effectively tackle the serious problem of the increase in child poverty. the european union must act urgently.
in writing. ‒ austerity policies have reinforced the effects of the crisis. we have seen an increase in poverty in europe. it is hardest hit by children, who are suffering the consequences of the weakening of the welfare state in the name of fiscal orthodoxy and the sacrosanct 3% rule. the zuber report proposes that the objective of reducing inequalities and combating child poverty should be included in the political priorities of the european union. we also stress the need for free, quality education, which should be accessible to all. finally, we propose that a child guarantee be created which would ensure free education, reimbursed health care, decent housing and adequate nutrition for children, while allowing their parents to find decent employment to stop being ostracized from society. while the commission remains passive, we want to force it to propose legislation. in the face of the emergency and the social distress experienced by many european families, we cannot stand idly by, we must act and finally lay the foundations for a social europe in action.
in writing. ‒ child poverty has increased significantly in recent years in europe, due to the increase in social inequalities and the austerity measures adopted by the member states. the social groups most affected are single-parent families, the unemployed and migrants, while the mediterranean countries are the most affected by this statistical phenomenon. 1. the all rights are covered in this proposal, but the focus on the child sometimes leaves out the environment and the family, which should receive more attention. 2. the the proposed policy measures are unrealistic in a period of structural crisis aggravated by a totally uncontrolled migratory pressure. 3. on the other hand, the provision of better social protection for the most vulnerable families must meet objective criteria, and their protection from the abuse of financial institutions is a matter of course. this text is aberrant and we still find the fatal theory of gender. i vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report by my portuguese colleague from the pcp notes the increase in child poverty in europe. for example, between 2008 and 2012, the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion increased by about one million, to 26.5 million. child poverty is growing alongside social inequalities and countries with the highest levels of social inequality have the highest child poverty rates. wealth distribution and employment policies, which have been undermined in recent years by austerity policies in favour of reducing budget deficits and debt, are major tools of intervention to bring about change in the long term. social assistance for children and their parents (such as unemployment benefits) should be developed, legislation should be promoted to guarantee social rights and household security, and expenditure on combating child poverty should be included in national budgets. without a revision of the european rules, this report will remain a dead letter. i shall vote in favour of it, however.
in writing. ‒ this report is very ideologically oriented. it is a further expression of the european union's desire to impose its harmful vision of a multicultural society on the member states. it systematically defends 'marginalized communities' such as roma, immigrants (legal or illegal) and asylum seekers. these are seen as the victims of bad policies. the report recommends that the use of european funds and social and cultural programmes be increased to remedy this. the presence of these communities and their behaviour in the country is never questioned despite the fact that the rates of incivility, crime and delinquency are well above average. as for immigrants and 'refugees', one need only look at what is happening in the calais jungle and elsewhere to understand the exasperation of the local people and of the european peoples in general. the mass presence of foreigners or people of foreign origin is reflected in a strong communitarianism and territorial segregation often accompanied by a refusal to submit to the customs and customs of the hosts. it should also be remembered that the generous subsidies paid to them have so far produced nothing positive. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it aims to reduce social disparities, in particular to reduce and eliminate poverty and exclusion, which implies fighting against segregation and promoting equal access and equal opportunities for all citizens, in particular the most marginalised communities, as well as groups and people of all ages facing poverty and social exclusion and lacking access to education, employment, housing and health care.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which is based on the culture of making permanent excuses and blaming our societies, which are 'necessarily racist': this is precisely what prevents us from developing a cohesion policy that is viable. i therefore did not want to endorse the irresponsible delusions of the german green member of parliament, terry reintke.
in writing. - i voted against the reintke report. this report, written in unsustainable jargon, on cohesion policy and marginalised communities is not the first report voted by this parliament which blames europeans to an extreme degree for their alleged discriminatory policy towards 'marginalised communities' such as the roma or the nomads. he's the same as the dozens of others who came before him. nor will he be the last to glorify the self-hatred and perpetual repentance of us europeans. the politically correct rants of this parliament have accustomed us to this and show - if it were still necessary - that our assembly and its left-wing representatives are a thousand miles away from the real concerns of our citizens. i hope that one day a rapporteur in this parliament will ask the 'marginalized communities' to thank europe for the moral, social and financial support they have often found there. although i'm afraid that hope is science fiction.
in writing. ‒ once again, a report from the european parliament that gives the good feeling without concern for the truly socially excluded. in the reintke report, the regi committee seeks to improve the use of european funds - a laudable goal in itself - but this is mainly to the benefit of roma communities, who are the main excluded in europe. in fact, nowhere is there any mention of the difficulties of social integration that people with disabilities or those without a fixed place of residence may sometimes encounter. in this text, the european commission is asked to adopt a european definition of these groups, to the detriment of the specific reality of each sovereign nation. the priority seems to be the inclusion of migrants and asylum seekers, without mentioning the people already in a very precarious social situation in europe. finally, the most inconsistent thing is the proposal to award a european prize for dedication to the inclusion of marginalized groups: that the union should already learn to use the funds available efficiently before awarding the first morality prizes. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities aims to encourage member states and the commission to set up programmes for marginalised communities, mainly roma. this text also includes migrants and asylum seekers in the notion of a marginalised community. no programme can assimilate the roma without a willingness on their part to integrate better and to respect better the rules and customs of the states in which they reside. i therefore voted against this report, as i am opposed to the use of the structural funds for programmes for roma communities.
in writing. ‒ according to the report, the cohesion policy does not sufficiently benefit marginalised communities, who are not integrated into decision-making structures, project implementation and monitoring. it would make these populations more vulnerable than they already are. the rapporteur therefore wishes to encourage the member states and the commission to set up programmes for marginalised communities, mainly the roma. in concrete terms, the report proposes to provide funds for their social inclusion. the rapporteur also recommends that marginalised communities be included in eu funds for the next programming period. no social inclusion programme for roma will be successful unless they are willing to integrate better and to respect the rules and customs of the member states of residence. we believe that the factors of the marginalisation of the roma community are mainly to be found in their refusal to assimilate to the dominant culture of the member state of residence and in the commission of numerous infringements of the latter's legislation. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes a series of measures to support marginalised communities through the mobilisation of the social cohesion instrument. each european society has groups and communities within it, victims of structural exclusion and segregation and lacking access to the most basic public infrastructure and services. cohesion policy is one of the union's main instruments for combating these inequalities and supporting territorial and social cohesion in its regions. i have voted in favour of the report, as i subscribe to these objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities. cohesion policy is indeed one of the union's instruments for combating inequalities and the marginalisation of certain communities in a relevant way, in parallel with national policies.
in writing. ‒ this report on marginalised communities aims to improve the use of eu funds, in the context of cohesion policy, by promoting the social inclusion of marginalised communities. by favouring roma and migrants, but also by wishing to award prizes to countries that are docile and lax in their approach to immigration, this report is completely disconnected from the reality and concerns of the people of europe. the safety and health problems posed by the constant and unrestrained settlement of illegal immigrants are sufficiently important that the european union does not have to spend more to make them mirror an integration process that will never succeed. i am opposed to the subsidization of mass immigration and the flight of public spending, and i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it does not require the populations concerned to integrate into our way of life.
in writing. cohesion policy is crucial for social integration, which is why i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which reflects my concern about the lack of integration of communities living on the margins of society. this is a reminder that the key challenges of cohesion policy are in particular to combat poverty and the exclusion of young people, adults and people with disabilities. it is in this context that we call on the european commission to take measures to facilitate the inclusion of marginalised communities in the design, implementation and evaluation of projects as an instrument for the empowerment of the communities concerned. we also stress the importance of implementing urban renewal and rehabilitation programmes for disadvantaged neighbourhoods. in addition, we call on member states to develop a strategy for disease prevention among marginalised communities. finally, i supported the inclusion in this report of anti-roma discrimination as part of a process of systematic exclusion, as roma remain one of the most marginalized groups in europe.
in writing. ‒ this text once again demonstrates the european union's desire to impose its harmful vision of a multicultural society on the member states. it systematically defends the so-called marginalised communities such as the roma, immigrants (legal or illegal) and asylum seekers. these are seen as the victims of bad policies. the report recommends that the use of european funds and social and cultural programmes be increased to remedy this. the presence of these communities and their behaviour in the country is never questioned despite the fact that the rates of incivility, crime and delinquency are well above average. the mass presence of foreigners or people of foreign origin is reflected in a strong communitarianism and territorial segregation often accompanied by a refusal to submit to the customs and customs of the hosts. it should also be remembered that the generous subsidies paid to them have so far produced nothing positive. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reintke report on the inclusion of marginalised communities in cohesion policy. while cohesion policy is an investment instrument for growth, it is also intended, as its name suggests, to support territorial and social cohesion in the regions. however, all european societies have groups that lack access to infrastructure and the most basic public services and are disproportionately affected by poverty and unemployment. the text adopted is the result of a compromise between the political groups. while some political groups supported unrealistic and all-inclusive provisions, the epp worked to improve the text. the report's scope has also been broadened from the unilateral focus on roma communities originally proposed by the rapporteur. i welcome the fact that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to include marginalised communities in the european union's cohesion policy. this powerful instrument should help to reduce inequalities and support territorial and social cohesion in regions facing these problems of marginalised communities.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the umbrella term for all the structural funds which are used to redress the wealth gap between european regions. they have been allocated eur 351 billion for the period 2014-2020. this policy allows the construction of infrastructure to decentralize and energize certain regions. it is also accompanied by social actions for training and the fight against discrimination. the opinion report on cohesion policy and marginalised groups, including roma, makes recommendations on how to target action within the european union to improve their lot. giving this policy an anti-discrimination objective is important as these groups are also present in the richer regions normally neglected by cohesion policy. the fight against discrimination against roma requires the correct use of the structural funds, which are an effective instrument against poverty and social exclusion. i have of course supported this report, which was adopted by a large majority, despite the opposition of the populists of eastern europe, joined by the elected representatives of the national front.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities. the rapporteur has clearly decided to favour the roma. it proposes to provide funds for their social inclusion (improving their living conditions, cultural assistance programmes, etc.). no social inclusion programme for roma will be successful unless they are willing to integrate better and to respect the rules and customs of the member states of residence. we believe that the factors of the marginalisation of the roma community are mainly to be found in their refusal to assimilate to the dominant culture of the member state of residence and in the commission of numerous infringements of the latter's legislation. that is why i am opposed, in these circumstances, to the use of the structural funds for projects and programmes for roma communities.
in writing. ‒ fn meps voted against this report because it places the responsibility for the lack of "social inclusion" of roma on the states. but nothing will be possible unless the roma have a real desire to integrate.
in writing. - i voted against this report. its aim is to 'improve' the use of eu funds to promote the social inclusion of marginalised communities. the rapporteur believes that marginalised communities, and mainly the roma, do not benefit sufficiently from cohesion policy because they are not sufficiently integrated into decision-making structures, in the implementation and monitoring of projects, which increases their vulnerability. we oppose this report because, unfortunately for the rapporteur, who is too naive, the lack of integration of the roma communities is not due to a lack of support, but to the categorical refusal of these populations to integrate. all expenditure on these populations will be useless unless they voluntarily seek to integrate.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is the most concrete expression of european solidarity, thanks to the structural funds which support local projects throughout europe. it is the most direct answer to the objective of territorial equality which is the principle of european integration. we know that territorial inequalities persist and sometimes increase under the combined effect of urbanisation and globalisation. the disadvantaged neighbourhoods, the precarious housing areas, the rural or mountain communities are the first to be affected by this centripete logic. this is why the reintke report, which focuses on the effective use of cohesion policy for these marginalised communities, is welcome. the complexity of the procedure for allocating european funds requires a strengthening of the administrative capacity of local managers, especially in the new programming of cohesion policy which decentralises the management of the structural funds. i also welcome the fact that the european semester, a blind instrument of budgetary consolidation, is being enriched by proposals. it could contain recommendations on cohesion policy projects for these areas in difficulty. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the term 'marginalized communities' refers to different groups of people such as minorities, roma, disabled people, migrants, refugees and socially excluded groups. i deeply regret the preference for the term 'marginalized communities' over 'marginalized populations' which is opposed to the republican construction. this is the union's vision of dividing people by 'places' of origin, religion or ethnicity. how do the poor or the disabled form a community? not in fact, not in law! the report strongly condemns austerity, including 'the cuts in the public services budget which have led to a worsening of the employment situation, the absence of social security, housing difficulties and health problems', and calls for, within the framework of cohesion policy, the guarantee of access to public services for these populations: health, education, housing, employment... unfortunately, this will remain a mere figure of speech as long as the commission continues to dictate the same policies of cuts in national budgets. parliament supports these transfers, particularly for the european social fund, which is itself suffering from the same problem, due to 'macro-economic conditionality'. so i can't condone this vicious cycle. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ this is a very ideologically oriented report which advocates the financing, with the help of european funds, of a number of social and cultural programmes for the benefit of the so-called marginalised communities. it is really about buying social peace and promoting multiculturalism. the introduction of such policies has never produced the desired results, and i therefore oppose this report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for better use of eu funds in the context of cohesion policy, by promoting the social inclusion of marginalised communities, mainly roma, but also migrants and asylum seekers. no social inclusion programme for the roma will be successful unless they are willing to integrate better, i.e. to stop their mafia activities of exploiting women, children and the elderly, and stealing. the factors of roma marginalization are mainly to be found in their refusal to assimilate to the dominant culture of the member state of residence and in the commission of numerous infringements of the latter's legislation. that is why we are firmly against the use of structural funds for projects and programmes for roma communities.
in writing. ‒ this report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities aims to improve the use of eu funds in cohesion policy by promoting the 'social inclusion of marginalised communities', a european term used to refer mainly to roma, migrants and asylum seekers. it also condemned the fact that the european commission had accepted partnership agreements which did not place sufficient emphasis on the inclusion of these 'marginalised communities'. it also proposes the creation of a european prize for exemplary dedication to the integration and inclusion of marginalised groups. it is totally illusory to see these programmes for the "inclusion" of roma in the absence of the will of these populations but also of the countries of origin. that is why i am opposed to the idea of giving more money to this utopian goal. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the eu's cohesion policy and marginalised communities. the text calls on the member states to help those most in need to integrate socially and economically, in particular by combating longterm unemployment, school dropouts and health risks. it encourages them to make better use of the european structural and investment funds to achieve this result. i support in particular the measures in this report which aim to strengthen the spirit of enterprise and to develop employment, which are real factors in the fight against marginalization.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reintke report on cohesion policy, which is one of the most powerful instruments available to the european union to combat inequalities and support territorial and social cohesion in its regions. all european societies have groups and communities such as the roma who suffer from structural exclusion and segregation by the majority of the population and who lack access to the most basic public infrastructure and services. in addition, they are very often affected by poverty, unemployment and poor sanitation in a totally disproportionate way. substantial cuts in public spending during the crisis have led to a worsening of existing problems in the member states, such as unemployment, lack of social security, housing difficulties and a lack of public health services. many municipalities still face significant budgetary constraints which prevent them from responding adequately to the phenomenon of social marginalisation. while national contexts, needs and solutions vary widely across europe, the objective of social cohesion requires action at european level in policies for the inclusion of marginalised communities.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. the marginalised communities in the union must have access to the structural funds, even if specialised tools are needed. however, it must not be forgotten or hidden that it is primarily the responsibility of the states to take care of and promote the development of the communities on their soil, and it is incumbent on these same communities to be dynamic in this process.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which calls for the european union to reaffirm its responsibility in the fight against the marginalisation of certain communities, in particular by reintroducing this objective in cohesion policy. segregation and marginalisation of migrant communities, indigenous populations and disabled people must be combated and cohesion policy must provide areas particularly affected by these problems with sufficient means to eradicate them effectively. the report stresses the need for better assessment of the real needs of vulnerable populations in order to ensure that the available financial instruments are mobilised promptly and effectively. i particularly welcome the reference to the particular role played by austerity policy and budget cuts in increasing inequalities, and the call for the commission to react quickly to find lasting solutions to these problems.
in writing. this report on cohesion policy and marginalised communities aims to improve the use of eu funds in cohesion policy by promoting the 'social inclusion of marginalised communities', a european term used to refer mainly to roma, migrants and asylum seekers. it also condemned the fact that the european commission had accepted partnership agreements which did not place sufficient emphasis on the inclusion of these 'marginalised communities'. it also proposes the creation of a european prize for exemplary dedication to the integration and inclusion of marginalised groups. it is totally illusory to see these programmes for the "inclusion" of roma in the absence of the will of these populations but also of the countries of origin. that is why i am opposed to the idea of giving more money to this utopian goal. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i thought it was important that we did a clear study on the inclusion of marginalised communities in cohesion policy. it's a necessity, and we had to express ourselves on it. that is why i voted in favour. however, by wanting to say too much, by wanting to be too detailed about the communities, by wanting to impose too much political correctness, some left-wing political groups have unfortunately drowned out some messages and have almost made the text unreadable. i'm sorry about that. our mission is to deliver short, precise and concise messages to our fellow citizens. i think that the text voted today does not meet all these criteria.
in writing. ‒ regional policy aims to promote the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union. integration and equal opportunities for all citizens, and especially for marginalised communities, are an integral part of this policy, especially as we know that the economic crisis has led to a worsening of poverty and social exclusion. further progress and improvements are therefore needed in this area, and this text proposes several, particularly in terms of involving and holding actors and the different levels of power to account. these measures seem to me to be necessary. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policies aim to combat inequalities and disparities within the european union. as an essential tool for social and regional harmonization in europe, they must help to put an end to discrimination against certain communities and promote their integration. in this report we urge the european commission to propose more precise and effective legislation to direct funds towards stigmatised populations and groups. we have fought for a clear definition of what a marginalized community is. only in this way can we have effective mechanisms to realise the full potential of cohesion policies, which must be a powerful vehicle for social integration. we must not stress the need for rapid and appropriate action to help the roma and gypsies, who are subject to widespread discrimination. this is a strong signal we are sending, as racist and xenophobic groups are gaining ground in europe. we will be uncompromising in our values and will not accept any discrimination, any stigmatization of any kind on our continent.
in writing. ‒ no social inclusion programme for roma will be successful unless roma are willing to integrate better and to respect the rules and customs of the member states of residence. we believe that the factors of the marginalisation of the roma community are mainly to be found in their refusal to assimilate to the dominant culture of the member state of residence and in the commission of numerous infringements of the latter's legislation. that is why we are opposed to the use of the structural funds for projects and programmes for roma communities. i am voting against the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ the term 'marginalized communities' covers many concepts: disadvantaged social groups, people in material deprivation, victims of discrimination (migrants, indigenous populations, people with disabilities, etc.). cohesion policy should play a leading role for these populations by providing financial support to public authorities to combat the consequences of marginalisation. but in reality, that is not the case. this report advocates better involvement of stakeholders and recommends measures such as networking of communities dealing with integration issues. the enf group, which is mainly made up of fn mps, tabled amendments to remove all references to the integration of migrants, roma, access to funds for marginalised communities... and of course voted against the text as a whole. i voted for it, of course, even though it is only a declaration of good intentions.
in writing. ‒ the report does not change the fact that it is moving in the direction of a growing abandonment of the sovereignty of states. it proposes to oblige member states, including those with veto power in the security council, to coordinate their action. it also promotes alignment of the member states' positions with the interests of the european union, by proposing the creation of a seat for the union in the security council, and the obligation for states to defend the union's positions in the security council, and to keep the other member states informed of their intentions and positions. the member states of the union are therefore asked to speak with one voice. the report is also ideologically troubling. it shows brussels' ambition to shape the world in its own image by imposing the recognition of myriad rights for lgbti communities, the end of the death penalty everywhere, etc. finally, the text contains a provision which alone sums up the nonsense of this report: the introduction of the principle of climate refugees into international law. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it reiterates the eu's commitment to effective multilateralism at the un. this commitment is rooted in the conviction that, in order to respond successfully to global crises, challenges and threats, the international community needs an effective multilateral system based on universal rights and values.
in writing. ‒ i strongly opposed this text which seeks to undermine the sovereignty of nations in favour of a world government and in total opposition to respect for democracy and the will of the people. the european union, with its pretensions to a federal state, which has already largely failed - as the recent dramatic terrorist attacks remind us - in its objective of maintaining security and peace, is thus seeking to break the voices of the member states at the un, especially those which, like france, have a right of veto in the security council. the report also dares to congratulate itself most seriously in the world on the 'peace actions' carried out by the union in the world, without taking account of its responsibility for the current destabilisation of the near and middle east. meanwhile, the report urges member states to applaud the irresponsible positions of the union in the un (see paragraph 6 of the report). the advocates of european federalism are even more outspoken in their desire to subordinate the european nations to the institutions of the union (paragraph 14). any patriot who cares about the peace, security and freedom of the european nations must therefore reject this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report underlines the importance of the union's observer role at the un, as well as the various rights conferred on it by this status, such as the right to propose texts and amendments or to raise procedural motions at assemblies. the text recalls first of all the commitment of the union and its member states to the values and principles of the united nations charter, which they are required to uphold in their external action. it also recalled the union's role as a major contributor to development and humanitarian aid. the report's proposals concern the reform of the security council, whose composition and functioning no longer reflect the current balance of power, with a view to improving the un's prevention and early warning instruments. the report aims above all to promote a common european position through the action of the vice-president and high representative of the union. for these reasons, i supported this text.
in writing. i supported this report because it is important that the union can play a greater role, alongside the member states, in the un general assembly. the union, which defends democracy and human rights and promotes peace and security, is indeed a major contributor of humanitarian and development aid under united nations programmes.
in writing. ‒ in the face of armed conflict, regional instability and global environmental and health problems, there is a need to improve the internal functioning of the united nations. in particular, why not imagine that when it comes to crimes against humanity, there should be neither veto nor blocking. it is also necessary to improve cooperation between the major powers such as the un and the european union. to this end, the european union's presence in international bodies must also be strengthened and it must speak with one voice on international issues wherever possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to strengthen the role of the european union (eu) in the united nations. in addition to the 28 member states which make up the union, including france, which is a member in good standing of the security council, the union enjoys the status of 'privileged observer' at the united nations. this status gives the high representative the opportunity to speak at general assembly meetings, to submit proposals and amendments, to table motions for resolutions and to circulate documents. however, i regret that the eu, for lack of a genuine common strategy on defence and international relations, is not more assertive and visible in the un. but there should be a clear leadership position on the migration or security crises, or on the situation in the middle east. i am very concerned about the un's inaction in the face of the crises currently affecting our continent, which concern not only europe but the entire international community.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the continuity of the abandonment of the sovereignty of the member states. it also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated. it also promotes alignment of member states' positions with eu interests, by proposing the creation of an eu seat on the security council, and the obligation for states to defend eu positions within the security council, as well as to keep other member states informed of their intentions and positions. ultimately, the eu must speak with one voice at the un. the report also aims to 're-make the world' from brussels. indeed, while its provisions do not require the next secretary-general to be a woman and combat discrimination among un staff, they expressly call for the security council to take greater account of lgbt rights, or else impose zero tolerance for the death penalty in the world. finally, the text contains a provision which sums up the nonsense of the text: the introduction of the principle of climate refugees into international law. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague paavo väyrynen on the role of the european union in the united nations. the text recalls the commitment of the european union and its member states to the principles of the united nations charter on the international scene. it also called for reform of the un system, in which the union participates as a privileged observer. this reform is necessary to strengthen the legitimacy, accountability and effectiveness of the united nations. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the key role played by the union in the united nations system, sharing the values and objectives of this organisation. the report highlights the union's major contribution to humanitarian aid and development around the world. it stressed the support of the european union for a reform of the un to make it more legitimate, accountable and efficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the role of the european union in the united nations. i consider it important to increase the union's international influence by coordinating the external policies of the member states more effectively and by strengthening cooperation between the union and the united nations. however, i abstained on paragraph 14 of the report because i believe that a possible reform of the un security council by the establishment of an enlarged security council including a seat for the european union can only be envisaged in the long term and without the presence of france and the united kingdom as permanent members being called into question.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the role of the european union in the united nations. first, as the name implies, the united nations is an institution where nations are represented, not supranational organisations such as the european union. the fact that the eu has become an actor in the un general assembly is in itself rather paradoxical. it is therefore difficult to take seriously the desire expressed in paragraph 14 of the report to obtain a seat in an enlarged security council. the report also calls for the member states to defend the european union's positions in the security council, which is contrary to national sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ like france, the european union is one of the most loyal allies of the un system. in the face of the current crisis in multilateralism, the vayrynen report makes both proposals for institutional reform of the un and welcome foreign policy positions of the eu. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised by the threat of terrorism. the report also calls for the abolition of the death penalty and for the abolition of the death penalty to be abolished. moreover, at a time when climate change is increasing population displacement (rising sea levels, droughts, etc.), the text opens the door to the drafting of an international definition of 'climate refugees'. finally, on trade, i have ensured - as rapporteur for the socialist group on this text in the inta committee - that the report supports the end of private arbitration of disputes between investors and states and that parliament is committed to a public international court.
in writing. ‒ this annual report on the eu's role in the un proposes some reforms to make the world organisation more transparent, including the appointment of its secretary-general. the main objective is to strengthen the eu's place in the un system in terms of its 'contribution to peace and security in the world' and eventually to secure for the eu a seat similar to that held by the member states. proposals that are completely hypocritical and very weak in the light of the current issues, whereas it would have been possible to commit oneself, for example, to supporting the peoples in the fight against daesh. the report even calls on france to submit to the will of the eu in the security council. he advocates the integration of the wto, the imf and the future international court of arbitration for the transatlantic trade treaty (gmt) into the un without changing their oligarchic functioning, which would only cripple the legitimacy of the un and invite more multinationals to the negotiating table. i am voting against and denouncing the vote of the french members who are participating in this weakening of the international peace organization.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the continuation of the eu-led abandonment of the sovereignty of the member states. on the one hand, it proposes to oblige member states, including those with a veto in the security council, to coordinate their action; on the other hand, it promotes alignment of the position of member states with the interests of the eu, by proposing the creation of an eu seat in the security council, and the obligation for states to defend the eu's positions in the security council, as well as to keep the other member states informed of their intentions and positions. the ultimate aim is for the eu to speak with one voice at the un. in the continuity of her policy, the member of parliament will naturally vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the role of the european union in the united nations is a further blow to the sovereignty of the member states. it considers that global issues must require coordinated european intervention by increasing the eu's influence, in particular in the united nations general assembly and the security council, where the adoption of a single eu seat is discussed. it provides for a mechanism to compel member states, including those with veto power in the security council, to coordinate their action. it also wants to oblige permanent and non-permanent member states to defend the eu's positions in the un security council. the report recalls that the echr is an example of progress in human rights, even though, according to the commission, it no longer applies in greece, since it is under the rule of the memoranda. it also introduces the principle of 'climate refugee' into international law. in short, this text is a line of pearls, each more europeanist than the other. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the role of the european union in the united nations. i support the measures in this text which call for the union to strengthen its role in this international arena, in particular to promote economic growth, reduce poverty and protect the environment. the report recalls that the union is the largest contributor to the budget for humanitarian aid, official development assistance and un peacekeeping operations. it called for a thorough reform of the un system to strengthen its legitimacy, accountability and effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. it stresses that the union and its member states share the values and principles of the united nations charter and play a key role in promoting these principles and the objectives of the united nations. the report welcomes the active participation and contribution of the union and its member states to the work of the united nations system in various ways and in various forms, but considers that they should be more visible. it also serves as a reminder of the union's major contribution to humanitarian and development aid around the world, and recalls that the union and its member states are jointly the world's largest provider of humanitarian and development aid.
in writing. this report on the role of the european union in the united nations is a further blow to the sovereignty of the member states. it considers that global issues must require coordinated european intervention by increasing the eu's influence, in particular at the un general assembly and the security council, where the adoption of a single seat for the eu is discussed. it provides for a mechanism to compel member states, including those with veto power in the security council, to coordinate their action. it also wants to oblige permanent and non-permanent member states to defend the eu's positions in the un security council. it recalled that the echr is an example of progress in human rights, even though, according to the commission, it no longer applies in greece, since it is under the rule of the memoranda. it also introduces the principle of 'climate refugee' into international law. in short, this text is a line of pearls, each more europeanist than the other. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ in this report we recall that the european union, on the one hand, and its member states, on the other, play a key role in the united nations and its bodies. france in particular, through its activities, its budget or the values we share. we want a thorough reform of the un system to make it more effective. all of this has led me to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report on the role of the european union in the united nations and the best ways to achieve the union's foreign policy objectives sets out ambitious proposals to strengthen our weight in this global body. the report stresses the need to strengthen the role of the european union in the united nations general assembly, and more particularly in the economic and social council, including environmental issues. i am convinced that the links between the european union and the united nations must be strengthened, now more than ever, in a context of global instability, and i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution. the european union and the united nations face common challenges: the pursuit of peace and security, the prevention of conflict, the fight against terrorism, the promotion of human rights, action for sustainable development, the defence of an international system based on multilateralism. the union must therefore contribute to solving these challenges through its foreign policy, while promoting its interests and values. the union must, for example, promote the development of global governance within the united nations and increase its influence and that of its member states within this system. it must win a seat on an enlarged security council. it should work to strengthen the un's mediation capacity and call for peacekeeping missions to be based on coherent mandates. it is the union's responsibility to live up to the role it intends to play, because it must be understood that if the union fails to meet this imperative, its very model will be put at risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which suggests ways for the european union to better achieve its foreign policy objectives at the united nations. as stated in article 21 (1) of the eu treaty, the european union and the member states share the values and principles of the un charter. it is necessary to recall that the european union contributes actively to the work of the united nations; the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the principle of equal treatment. the european union is able to speak at all un meetings, but also to propose amendments and submit resolutions, but the eu institutions present in the un system enjoy very little visibility. i also supported this report because it recalls that the union is committed to actively supporting a reform of the un system in order to consolidate its legitimacy and effectiveness and to strengthen its authority.
in writing. ‒ since 2011, the eu has enjoyed the status of 'privileged observer' in the united nations and is no longer represented there only through its member states. this resolution therefore intends to provide guidelines for such participation. some of the reforms are interesting, such as the reform of the appointment process of the secretary-general, which has been too opaque so far; the european union is also calling for the abolition of the right of veto of members of the security council in cases of genocide and crimes against humanity, or the introduction of a binding instrument on multinationals in the field of human rights, as proposed by ecuador. but, on the other hand, the establishment of an investment protection regime within the un system - the infamous "arbitration mechanisms" of ttip or ceta - or the establishment of coordination between the wto and the un to "promote a trade and investment strategy" has no place in the multilateral framework based on universal rights and values, and is part of a well-known ultra-liberal drift. i therefore abstained on this report.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, i find it always surprising to hear people being in favour of something at the global level when it is certain that it will not happen right away and to be content with no action where action is possible. i think that's a good excuse. for my part, i am rather here to welcome the work of the two rapporteurs, mrs ferreira and mr theurer, and that of alain lamassoure and the whole commission, who have tried to work on a subject which is anything but obvious, where the definitions are not so easy to establish since there are grey areas, that is to say things which are licit but which, by their magnitude, end up becoming totally and morally unacceptable. in looking to the future, commissioner, i would like to stress two points. first, we'd like you to continue to help us. you did, but we'd like to go deeper into the document search. why would you do that? because this parliament is the seat of democracy and you know how much it is being said in our country at the moment that europe is doing nothing on a number of issues, that europe is not up to the task. "what is europe doing?" we have here an opportunity to make the member states responsible, because without them there is no european action. the second thing is what you said about the consolidated common agricultural policy. i was one of the fictional reporters, we did our best. you consider it your responsibility to remove the text. it is not to defend a job, but let us simply make sure that we are not accused, afterwards - as we are being accused at the moment with regard to the pnr - of having slowed down. we do not want to put the brakes on things, and i do not think the commission does either, but we want to get things done as quickly as possible. the paradox is that most of the companies, the multinationals we have heard, have clearly said to us: "if you do not want tax resumes and tax evasion, give us a level playing field, let's make sure we have the same rules all over europe". lastly, it is obvious that efforts must be made to apply the oecd rules as far as possible.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the taxe report has the merit of kicking mr juncker, the great helmsman of the unfair scheme in the heart of europe, in the nuts. the practices of many multinationals seeking to avoid taxation by aggressive arrangements have led to scandalous situations at a time when austerity is being demanded of europeans. for too long, nothing has been done. companies such as starbucks, google and facebook make huge profits off the backs of citizens and pay little or no tax to the member states. in france alone, the damage to public finances was 15 billion euros a year. what were you doing in bercy all these years, mr. moscovici? the tax response is necessary and delicate, we support the harmonization of the corporate tax base, the accis plan, the exchange of information, the publication of information by country, in order to tax profits where they are made. but we, as patriots, categorically reject the prospects of a tax union and harmonization of rates. if the taxe report is going in the right direction, we will remain very vigilant and critical of the council's and the european commission's comments.
madam president, the creation of the taxe committee was the political response to the scandalous luxleaks revelations. our investigations have shown that for at least two decades, some member states have been engaged in a real hidden bidding process for tax advantages for multinationals. the other states have let it go because in reality, each one on its side has its own niches and is managing to be someone else's tax haven. this is no longer acceptable and i commend our rapporteurs for their recommendations. thanks to the whistleblowers and the media, thanks to the european commission - its tax and competition branches, and i thank commissioner moscovici for the cooperation that has been and will be - thanks to the oecd and the g20 and thanks to the political pressure that this parliament has maintained for the last nine months and needs to maintain, a change of mindset is beginning to take place everywhere. everyone is beginning to realise that tax competition can no longer be conducted in a way that is opaque, unfair and unfair. those days are over! as for the companies themselves, having already admitted for some time that they have a social responsibility, that they have an environmental responsibility, they must begin to understand that they also have a civic responsibility, which is to contribute to the proper financing of public services in the countries where they work, in proportion to their activity. in the financial world, there was a before and after lehman brothers, it's up to us, in tax matters, to have a before and after luxleaks.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the luxleaks scandal, it is clear that parliament has done a very good job, despite some reservations. i would like to begin by congratulating our co-rapporteurs on the work they have done in drawing up this report, which i hope will serve as a road map for the other european institutions which are too lax. i also want to commend the work of our president, alain lamassoure. the report sets a course for the future, but it has also helped to outline the responsibilities of those who have allowed tax injustice to become the norm. this work needs to be extended for another six months. (the president cut the speaker off) parliament has been able to assert itself in the face of multinationals, but now it must show its strength in the field of hearings and investigations. we will also have to hear president juncker and minister dijsselbloem again, whose past actions deserve a minimum of clarification. finally, the extension will send a clear message to the commission and the member states. parliament wants to control the executive's actions, access to documents remains the priority. we have received only a small percentage of what we have asked for and that is unacceptable. we are on the right track, let's not give up.
madam president, there was an expectation on the part of the european citizens, who had been rightly outraged by the revelations of the luxleaks affair. the report we are discussing today is partly in line with this expectation. i say yes partly because i think it is work that deserves to be welcomed, but welcomed as a first step towards what could be called the fiscal awakening of the union. it has been said that much remains to be done, but we must repeat that. the report shows the shameful behaviour of multinational companies which implement very sophisticated tax optimisation strategies. it is a report which also shows the very harmful effects of this unfair competition between states from a tax point of view and which results in huge losses of earnings. our colleague mr bayet spoke of a trillion euros, and that is exactly what we are talking about. finally, it is a report, and i must stress this, which shows the unequal treatment of multinational companies, which sometimes avoid paying taxes, and small companies, which pay full price. so there are some recommendations that go in the right direction and, of course, at the heart of the project is the ccctb, this consolidated corporate tax base. commissioner moscovici presented the commission proposal. this is a good thing, but i think we should not stop ourselves from looking further and going faster. there are certain aspects which i find interesting, for example the protection of whistleblowers and the prevention of conflicts of interest. afterwards, you may regret missing some points. i am thinking in particular of a minimum rate of corporation tax. overall, this is a good thing. it is a first step in this long and necessary march towards tax justice. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i do not see how the social democratic group would defend the lobbies or the multinationals; i don't see the connection. it is true, however, that when the multinationals finally agreed to our request to appear before the taxe committee chaired by mr lamassoure, they showed a dismissive attitude which was at least disconcerting. i note that there is a touching unanimity on the right and on the left in condemning these practices, and i think we can all agree that we must move from that touching unanimity to action. that is what we propose in this report.
mr president, commissioner, this committee exists because, after all, the member states have allowed the multinationals to abuse them for too long and use them to organise competition which undermines the foundations of our social contract. we are now at a time when all member states need to put an end to this deadly fiscal competition which prevents internal and external solidarity from being exercised at a time when we need it most. so i think the work of this committee is essential when first of all it is said that the tax base of multinationals must be rebuilt. i am told here and there that the amounts that would eventually escape taxation would not be as important as this. that is why we insist so much on the consolidated nature of this tax base, because otherwise we are missing a lot. whistleblowers must be protected and finally, the momentum of pressure organised by this european parliament must be maintained to support the commission and to encourage the member states to finally move from talking to acting and to cooperate in tax matters to prevent multinationals from evading tax justice.
chairman of the budg committee. mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased with the agreement reached on budgetary conciliation and i would like to express my satisfaction and gratitude to all those who have joined forces to achieve it: the presidency of the council in the person of pierre gramegna, the minister of finance of the grand duchy, whom i am pleased to welcome, the commission in the person of its vice-president, kristalina georgieva, our rapporteurs, josé-manuel fernandes and gérard deprez, but also eider gardiazábal rubial and jens geier and, more generally, all the members of our delegation. i think i can say that, in a particularly difficult situation, parliament has done its job well. we wanted this budget to be at the service of growth, at the service of employment, and to respond to the challenges of migration and the reception of refugees, but we must not be paid for words. locked into a multiannual financial framework adopted in december 2013, our budget leaves us penniless as soon as a major crisis occurs. in the face of exceptional circumstances, we naturally dream of exceptional resources and quickly measure our impunity. the subterfuge will no longer be able to hide the truth. many of the announcements will seek in vain to finance the means they call for in the budget we are about to vote on. this is so true that other sources must be sought, including direct contributions from member states to trust funds for africa and syria. moreover, as far as payments are concerned, which is a test of the truth of all our commitments, the present lull is only the consequence of inertia and delays in the launching of programmes. in other words, as of 2017, unpaid invoices will again be piling up on the commission's desk at unsustainable levels. the situation has become critical. at this point, we must remember that parliament's agreement on the 2014-2020 financial framework was only granted on the condition of a mid-term review, a post-election review. i am counting on the commission, which is called the 'commission of the last chance' in the words of its president, jean-claude juncker. yes, i am counting on the commission to submit a project that is commensurate with the challenges we have to face, commensurate with the tasks that the member states have already entrusted to the european union in the european treaties, and those that are to come. i remain confident and hope that the two arms of the budgetary authority, the council and parliament, will be able to approach this meeting with seriousness, lucidity and courage. your committee on budgets is preparing for this under the chairmanship of our colleagues isabelle thomas and yann olbrycht. of course, i have no doubt that the commission will be able to provide us with expert help. i hope that the council will show the same spirit as that which prevailed during our successful conciliation. i congratulate you, minister. my dear colleagues, beyond the 2016 budget, which i encourage you to vote on, let us prepare to reframe our budgetary perspectives to convince europeans that the union, in the age of globalisation, has the ambition to assert its power and that it is our duty to give it the means to do so.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam vice-president, mr minister, objectivity demands that we say that parliament's conciliation has made it possible to achieve a certain amount of progress in relation to the council's initial proposals. the budget for erasmus, the budget for research programmes and the creation of a mechanism to enable farmers to cope with the russian embargo have been maintained. but that said, we see how much the constrained framework of the mff now weighs heavily when it comes to having a budget to meet the challenges we face. and that's how the jie is going to be stopped in its tracks. we know that the problem of unpaid debts is not solved, that it is before us and that it will become even more serious, as president arthuis has said, from 2017 onwards. this means that we will have to have this debate on own resources and the debate on the financial transaction tax at the time of the mid-term review, which is the only way to provide the european union with a real budget to meet the new challenges.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, this 2016 budget is light years away from the challenges facing the people. the union is playing the fireman. the crisis it has itself caused is now forcing it to raise additional funds urgently in order to maintain its image. farmers, for example, are suffering from the aberrant policies of brussels and the russian embargo, a consequence of the sanctions imposed on russia by the european union, but european taxpayers will pay the price. as for immigration policy, the european union has clearly failed. the control of the external borders is not ensured and the ridiculous budgetary increases to remedy this will do nothing. the additional €710 million planned for 2016 will not be enough to stem the millions of immigrants who are preparing to come to our continent in the coming years. unfortunately, your immigration ideology is very much in line with this, but the european peoples are increasingly opposing it, urging their governments to close their national borders. yes, this 2016 budget shows once again, i am sorry to say, the european union's inability to address the immense dangers facing our peoples and it is high time that this stopped.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, first of all i would like to thank you very much for the excellent conduct of this budgetary conciliation, the result of which will enable us to provide a number of responses to the migration crisis. however, i regret that the commitments for the youth unemployment initiative were stopped in 2016 and that this program has been reduced to a promise, a french proverb that promises only commit those who listen to them. as co-rapporteur on the revision of the multiannual financial framework, however, i can assure you that parliament will keep up the pressure. however, as you know, since or more precisely during the conciliation, there have been attacks in paris. the council of ministers for justice and home affairs met on friday and announced a series of measures to combat terrorism: coordination of intelligence missions, possibly in the form of agencies, border guards. but the 2016 budget does not provide the means and we have already used almost all the flexibility instruments. so how do the council and the commission view this new expenditure? how are they going to finance them? and, above all, has the justice and home affairs council met with ecofin even once?
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank all who have spoken. three points in closure. firstly, it is very important at a time of increased uncertainty that we have a budget that is agile, has a clear focus on priorities and is oriented towards impact and how to give the people the best value for the money they entrust us to manage on their behalf. that would require us to take the forthcoming mid-term review very seriously. this is our chance to strengthen the agility, focus and capacity of our budget, and also to look to the future as regards the kind of budget we would like to have next time around. secondly, many of the speakers expressed a very understandable concern about the limited flexibility we have. but we still have some flexibility for next year; that is the contingency margin, if needed, of no more than eur 4 billion. we have the contingency margin and, of course, we will only be using it if that is necessary. we will have the possibility towards the end of the year to use a global transfer; in other words, money that is not put to the best use. we should not rush headlong into using this option; we should try to keep it as a kind of cushion. last but not least, we now have a chance to receive funds from our member states, as assigned revenues for priorities that we all recognise are best addressed together. for this we have the syria trust fund and the africa trust fund, and we, the commission, are proposing to provide the platform for addressing priorities in that manner. thirdly, there was a question addressed to me: what is the commission going to do in the long term to deal with the challenge of migration? this is one question that is not going to disappear. it was mentioned that climate change is upon us. the projections of the ipcc tell us that by 2025 there may be 100 million climate refugees. so, we have to direct our resources at tackling the problem at source and tackle the root causes that are causing the problem here in europe. for this reason, we have refocused our development funds more on fragility – i also want to praise prime minister cameron of the uk, who has recently announced that 50% of dfid funds will go to fragile countries. i think we need to do more where it matters the most: for the people affected, but also for our own security. of course, we will have to invest more in the security of europe. the commission has promised to come up with a proposal on how we can strengthen external border controls, and that is an area where i believe that collectively we have a better chance to be successful than acting alone. let me finish by thanking those who have made this budget miracle possible, and may we have it repeated next time around.
president of the council. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking all the speakers for their comments and contributions. i've recorded many covers and i'm glad i did. i also took note of the criticisms and there were some, some of which were constructive and which i think can be taken into account in next year's budget. but actually, it's too late, i think we need more agility. as the chairman of the committee has said, we must first take account of the constructive criticism and the urgencies that await us in the coming weeks and months. as i did not do so in my opening speech, i would like to thank the key people in this negotiation. i would like to start with jean arthuis, who has shown a great civic sense and a sense of priorities, and i thank him for that. i would like to thank mr fernandes, the rapporteur, mr josé manuel, who showed a flawless enthusiasm that was contagious. i would like to thank gérard deprez, who has shown humour and tenacity, thank mrs gardiazabal, who has shown a great deal of pragmatism and, last but not least, mr gahler for his patient work with all the agencies. of course, mrs g hyperlink "https://www.google.com/search?rls=com.microsoft:en-gb:ie-address&biw=1920&bih=934&q=georgieva+kristalina&spell=1&sa=x&ved=0ahukewiiqory56njahxcvq8khanfchmqvwuigsga" eorgieva kristalina, vice president, was a key person, who put a lot of her energy and talent into it. at the same time, i believe that it has innovated in the method it uses, by being very transparent about its objectives and figures. we have been able to speed up the negotiations and i think that this has set a good precedent for the years to come. i should not like to forget all those who are working in the shadows, whether in the commission, the european parliament or the presidency, our permanent representative ambassador christian braun and on my right, amir motahari, who did a superb job of preparation in the budget committee. thanks to all of you, we have been able to achieve, for the first time since the treaty of lisbon, unanimity among the member states on this budget, which is very good news. i also hope that tomorrow, although it is up to you to decide, we shall see a large majority adopting this budget. it would be the greatest gift you could give to the presidency, which has worked so hard to do so. i shall not go back to the budgetary priorities, we have already discussed them, and the three axes of the triangle which are solidarity on the one hand, employment and growth on the other, and thirdly, of course, budgetary prudence and the necessary room for manoeuvre. it's the magic triangle we've managed to solve. the atmosphere here seemed to me very good, and i must say that it was excellent in the conciliation committee as well. as mr gahler asked me why i was not present at the previous debate, i would simply like to explain. you know that i was very keen to do so because i was in the chamber, but i was informed that we could not impose ourselves on parliament and that we had to be invited. since i was not invited, i did not want to break with the courtesy and good habits as they exist. however, i would like to say to mr gahler and to the other interested parties, who have followed the debate very closely, that the luxembourg presidency has done everything in its power to promote the work of the taxe committee. i myself received the taxe committee in luxembourg in june and was invited to come and see it as president of the council, which i did in october, and i even sent it written documentation and answers to its questions. i understand that the work will continue, and we are also at your disposal for that. a simple word, as president, on this subject: luxembourg has made the issue of international taxation and the challenges in this area one of the priorities of its presidency and on 6 october this year, at the ecofin council, we reached political agreement on the automatic exchange of tax returns, which was one of the main topics. luxembourg has therefore tried to act in the interests of the european union; luxembourg is part of the solution, not the problem. finally, and i end on the good atmosphere that has prevailed among us, i welcome what mr deprez has emphasized, namely that we have succeeded in strengthening institutional loyalty by reaching agreement on staff reductions in all the institutions. we have found a compromise which seems to me quite acceptable, perhaps even hopeless. i hope that this strengthened institutional loyalty will continue and be strengthened in the months and years to come, and in this sense this budget could be a happy precedent which i hope will serve you in the many challenges that lie ahead, which have been described with great enthusiasm and truth by both the european parliamentarians and the commissioner.
chairman of the budg committee. madam president, i would like to welcome the words just spoken by minister gramegna on competition and tax optimisation. in your opening remarks, minister, you referred to the circumstances of the evening of friday the 13th. we've seen multinational corporations express their compassion. i would like to say to those companies which are tax-optimising to an extent which i consider excessive that the taxes they could pay here in europe would probably help us to mobilise the necessary resources to fight terrorism. that said, at the end of this debate, i would like to thank and congratulate the three institutions once again: you, mr minister, for the way you conducted the conciliation, you, madam vice-president, who were firm in your expertise and the lucidity you shared with us, our rapporteurs and all the members who took part in the conciliation. but i want to involve all of our employees. they have shown a lot of skill, a lot of availability. they were at the level of excellence and they made us successful. i would simply like to conclude by expressing a hope, a dream and a call. the hope is that we will be able to break the rigidity of our budgetary framework. we can see that this rigidity exposes europe to the risk of being powerless when exceptionally serious events occur. we also no longer pay for words, the gap between our commitments and our payments cannot last. commissioner, you will see on your desk in the years to come considerable sums of money relating to bills that may remain unpaid. my dream is that europe will be involved in the effective fight against youth unemployment. of course we have not got the funds we hoped for to continue the youth employment initiative, but an evaluation is going to be made and we will draw the consequences immediately. this budget also includes pilot projects and i am pleased that one of them gives us the opportunity to support apprentices and to enable them and students to move about. youth unemployment is an offense to europe. it's clouding our future. as for the appeal, since this morning the council unanimously approved the conclusions of the conciliation, ladies and gentlemen, i call on you to vote tomorrow on our 2016 budget.
i'm the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks of 13 november have left europe and the world in a state of shock. i wish we had a thought for the victims and the families of the victims on the eve of the national funeral. today, more than ever, we must be, we must act, we must respond to our responsibilities and to the trust which the european citizens have placed in us. the report we are debating tonight should not divide us but should lead us to a consensus; we are not talking about a soft consensus, not a consensus of ease, but a consensus on the need to raise awareness and to fight firmly against the barbarism and terrorism that is now in our midst. the measures proposed in this report help to tighten the net, to close the screw on barbarians who take advantage of our rule of law and our universal values that they know so well, since they were born in europe and lived in europe, and that they absolutely want to destroy. no excuse, no mitigating circumstances, no good feeling should really take place in the face of these criminals. if we do not, we will have to answer to our fellow countrymen for our weakness and cowardice. the main measures proposed, which were adopted by the committee on 19 october, are, first of all, the criminal liability of the net giants. the internet has become the first virtual training ground for these radical terrorists with videos and sites that incite hatred, barbarism, terrorism and crime. prison is another place of radicalization that we have too long turned a blind eye to, thinking that those who radicalize are turning to the faith. yes, they were turning to the religion of horror. this blindness has led to the training, recruitment of barbarians, thus preparing them to become time bombs once released. fighting terrorism means fighting its financing. today we must denounce all those foreign countries which are pouring their money without control or transparency into structures, places of worship, informal or official, into associations, into individuals who call themselves imams, all of this on the territory of the european union. little by little, they have destroyed our values, disrupted individuals who have become enemies of our countries, where they were born and where they lived. the enemy today is no longer outside, it's inside, and we have been responsible for creating these monsters. secondly, as regards the monitoring of the movements of individuals who have been reported, monitored or radicalised, the european and intra-european pnr is now necessary. the paris terrorists could have been more easily located and we could have known the extent of their network that led them to commit the carnage of last friday; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. like the return of jihadists, who must be stopped, detained as soon as they return. these measures are not exhaustive and your amendments, ladies and gentlemen, are obviously welcome. but even if adopted, this report will only take effect if the european commission and the council agree to implement these measures. then take responsibility. the citizens of europe are watching us and expecting a lot from us. we must live up to their expectations or we will pay dearly for it. i would like to draw the attention of our socialist colleagues to this, since irresponsible amendments - and i weigh my words carefully - have been tabled, such as the refusal to control the european union's borders to avoid checks on migrants, even though terrorists have infiltrated as migrants. if we fail to do so, if we do not put this control in place, it will be an insult to the memory of the victims of the attacks of january and 13 november last.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speech. i was very touched by the few words you had for the victims of paris, as a frenchman. you have spoken only, and rightly so, of islamist radicalisation, which is the main danger today. however, the dati report mixes this very worrying phenomenon with other forms of violence that are less worrying, such as separatist violence. do you agree with me that it is a pity that this report is not devoted exclusively to islamist radicalisation?
madam president, thousands of young europeans have gone to fight in syria and iraq. how many of them are now prepared to go there or to commit massacres, here or elsewhere? let me express my solidarity with tunis, which has just been struck by another attack. so yes, we must do everything to prevent these young people from taking action, but we must also know how to deal with those who do. they're 90 percent according to a french survey, and they can be valuable allies. their profiles are becoming more and more different: middle classes, lower classes or even very privileged classes. and, don't offend some people here, yes they are muslims for many of them, but often converted and newly converted, and they are also atheists, even catholics and jews. their journeys are increasingly differentiated, they are marginalised and psychologically weak, but also perfectly integrated. so yes, repression is necessary, but it is not enough and it must be done more than ever in accordance with the law, avoiding any stigma and any generalized suspicion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our security requires an unprecedented mobilization against terrorism. in addition to judicial, police and military action, a battle of imagination must be fought to prevent young europeans from turning to jihadism. our enemies have propaganda, we have culture and education, which are the formidable weapons of democracy against obscurantism. no fight against terrorism will be successful unless we also fight against the causes of terrorism. for environmentalists, this fight against radicalisation does not require the stigmatisation of islam or the adoption of the european pnr and its ever more extensive data collection. it involves understanding the mechanisms and preventing the transition to radicalism and violence of young europeans from all backgrounds, cultures and social classes. it involves fighting inequalities, frustrations, which provide a narrative that is too convenient for the murderous manipulators of the islamic state. our enemies dream of taking on the most marginalized of our societies and turning them against us. our social cohesion will be our best defense.
madam president, the report before us is typical of the dogmatic and ineffective europe you have been building for decades. you are thinking only of strengthening obscure european agencies and giving them ever more sovereignty. but these agencies are all like frontex. they are supposedly created to solve a problem, but they only organize its development. europe has deprived france of the means to ensure its security. inside and outside the schengen area, murderers have been able to move freely and kill 130 innocent people. you see massive european propaganda as the only answer to jihadist propaganda. you want to rule the internet with an iron glove worthy of china and continue to not address the root of evil. on the contrary, you advocate the development of communitarianism, whereas it is he who has made molenbeek a hotbed of islamists. what the youth of our country need is love of their country. the french people must be able to enjoy the freedom and security guaranteed by secure national borders, a proud national identity and, above all, an exciting national destiny.
madam president, i hope that mrs abiol guzmán will not ask that i be punished by mr bush, as she did for a previous speaker. but i would like to add to what mr mayer said: we are blind, we do not see that there is indeed a religious dimension in these abominable crimes and we say that there is no connection with islam. if, of course, there's a connection. of course, not all muslims are terrorists, thankfully! but today's terrorists claim to be muslims, and their reading of their holy book, unfortunately, does not disprove their criminal actions. we must also say that we have a great responsibility for having destroyed the only political force that could oppose radical islamism, that is to say, the arab nationalism that the west and the united states of america destroyed in iraq and libya and were preparing to destroy in syria. we are then astonished to see that in this vacuum an identity is being built which of course attracts young people from our cities and suburbs. we have said that they were french, that they probably should never have become french, but that, mr niedermüller, is another matter.
madam president, the report by mrs dati deals with the prevention of radicalisation and the recruitment of union citizens by terrorist organisations. our debate today comes ten days after the heinous attacks that bled paris, ten months after those that struck the charlie hebdo newspaper and the hyper cacher supermarket. in the preamble to this report you say that radicalisation should not be associated with any particular ideology or religion. it is islamist fanaticism that is generating terrorism in europe and is bleeding france. unfortunately, this denial of reality is characteristic of the blindness of our so-called elites. the french minister of the interior said a few months ago, and i quote, that "it is not a crime to advocate jihad". and what kindness to the islamist gangrene when our foreign minister thinks that the al-nusra front - that is, al-qaeda - is doing a good job, when the report we are debating today calls terrorists fighters or when our colleague eva joly thinks that they should be given a second chance. it is time to put an end to this angelicism, the fight against islamism cannot be done with green numbers or psychological follow-up sessions! it is time to take the necessary measures: close salafi mosques and ban islamist organizations; stripping binational citizens of their nationality if they are involved in jihadist activities; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, commissioner, at the end of a previous debate on terrorism in europe, you dared to say: 'schengen is not the problem, it is part of the solution'. but it was your europe of the sieve that made the paris attacks possible. from the island of lesbos to the enclave of molenbeek, whether they were born in europe or not, islamists move freely on our continent. we must therefore begin by getting rid of the immigration ideology of the european union and regain control of our borders!
madam president, in the face of the tragic terrorist attacks that are hitting the european union and beyond, we must take strong measures to ensure the security of europeans. but we also need to tackle the roots of violent radicalisation affecting young europeans from all social backgrounds. that is the subject of this report and the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats has made a major contribution to it. we call for the development and financing of long-term preventive policies, first in schools, in neighbourhoods, but also on the internet, with the mobilisation of all. field actors, such as associations and educators, need to be equipped with the means and training to work with the populations most vulnerable to hate speech and to detect signs of violent radicalisation as early as possible. it is also important to help families, in particular through telephone reporting and listening platforms. finally, internet companies must commit to doing more to remove hate messages that incite terrorism. but let's be responsible and avoid dangerous amalgamations. on the one hand, it is the exposure of religion and never religion itself that can lead to violent radicalization, and on the other hand, refugees are not the perpetrators of terrorism, they are its first victims.
in writing. the development of islamic terrorist organisations is the main cause of concern for european judicial and intelligence services in the union. the report is a blank canvas and refuses to name the main threat to the security of our citizens today. the fight against radicalisation requires first and foremost the closure of the channels that feed terrorism: uncontrolled borders allowing the free movement of malicious individuals and weapons on our territory and foreign financing, sometimes by powers with which the union is allied. in this context, the european union is acting as a pyromaniac firefighter and the report before us is not up to the challenge. laxity in the judiciary, the resignation of the elites in culture, education and social cohesion, and the unthinking encouragement of communitarianism are the factors of tension that lead to confrontations even among europe's youth. how many more young people will go to syria to wage jihad, massacre christians, and then return to europe to finish their work? how many more families will be torn apart before the european political class wakes up?
in writing. we will be voting on this report on the prevention of radicalisation at a time when concrete and urgent action by member states is needed in a coordinated way to prevent radicalisation and to combat terrorism. the report proposes the establishment of a blacklist of jihadists, improved judicial control of foreign fighters, administrative detention upon their return to europe, and the confiscation of passports and the freezing of financial assets of potential foreign fighters. as regards borders, compulsory and systematic controls must be established at the external borders of the union and information must be exchanged between states and with europol concerning suspected terrorists. the report also stresses the need to address the prevention of the spread of extremism, including the separation of radicalised prisoners from other prisoners.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed approaching this report in an extremely complicated context, since, as you all know, europe is the victim of massive steel imports from russia and especially china at prices that defy all competition. that is one of the questions i will be asking the commissioner shortly. to put this debate back into the present context, i would remind you that in the last 11 months the price of slate has been cut in half. so you can imagine that today some countries are able to produce steel below cost. the report deals with the sustainable development of the production of base metals, and i wanted to give it that title to cut short all the fantasies of others and of those who told us that we had to choose between industry and respect for the environment. i am trying to show in this report that both are possible: to maintain a strong industry in europe, the production of base metals, while respecting the environment, of course. but to do that, you need resources, you need investment. europe has been suffering from a lack of investment since the 2008 crisis, which has an impact on competitiveness and also on the environment. that is what i would like europe, the european parliament, to be able to defend at the dawn of cop21 by means of urgent decisions, although europe is the continent that continues to defend both the environment and industry. i just want to remind you, to give you an idea, that for every tonne of steel produced in europe, we emit two tonnes of co2. the same ton of steel produced in china on average emits three tons of co2. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. so today the situation is very serious. it is all the more serious because it could be the death knell of our industry. i'm saying she could be the death knell of our industry. today, if we look at the figures for china, we see that it has 350 million tons of excess steel production capacity. european consumption is equivalent to 170 million tonnes. therefore, you can imagine that with the decline of the chinese economy, that country will indeed try, through a much more offensive policy, through dumping and state aid, to drain this excess steel production capacity. the consequences are well known: the closure of redcar in great britain, several thousand job cuts at tata steel, several measures to reduce parttime work announced all over france, spain, italy, etc. the real question of substance that we are collectively asking each other and that i am asking you, mrs bieńkowska, and i thank you for being here tonight, is: do we still want an industry at european level? because i'm telling you, this is a matter of life and death and we need to move fast. it can go very fast. we must not wait six months or three months, we must act from 1 january 2016 if we want to keep this industry going. to sum up some of the highlights of my report, i do advocate using trade defence instruments a little more aggressively against anti-dumping, anti-subsidy measures. this equity measure is the carbon adjustment at the frontiers, because there is no question of charging the polluting duty only to european industrialists and turning a blind eye to all imports from elsewhere. when i say elsewhere, it's china, russia and brazil. it's not just a target on chinese steel. this is the opportunity because here too the industrialists tell us that they need to have visibility, especially in terms of energy contracts which can be given to them to sign long-term contracts. then, it is actually the compensation of indirect co2 costs. i would remind you that this report is not just edouard martin's, even though it bears my name. we visited ten countries in europe. in each case we have met with business leaders, local elected representatives, trade union organisations and ngos and, with a few exceptions, everyone agrees that it is time for europe to defend its industry more firmly today through these measures, which are shared by the whole collective. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, your report is good in that it does indeed stress the importance of heavy industry, which produces products, goods and also services. but you are not offering a good solution, my dear colleague. your carbon shielding won't work and won't be effective. go to the end of your logic; the logic is protectionism. we must protect ourselves against dumping, we must protect ourselves because there is a problem of safety, independence, the environment and jobs. there is no shame in protecting ourselves, the problem is the commission, which, by a bad view of the market, is creating energy insecurity and also insecurity in employment and industry. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left behind.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a very rich debate. i'll try to speak slowly, but i'd have to have a few more seconds, please. i've heard things that are a little bit unlikely. i simply want to point out that since 2008 - and mr tajani will not contradict me - europe has paid a heavy price for the steel crisis. we have closed the equivalent of 40 million tons of production. forty million tons of it! i repeat: do we still want to keep the 170 million tonnes? but in this case, the report does not speak only of steel, even though we are facing a steel crisis, as has been pointed out. we're talking about aluminum, copper, zinc and so on. these are all metals that are essential to our economy. i was also surprised to hear some colleagues, including mr fox - it is a pity he is already gone - say that the carbon adjustment at the border was not a good answer. others said that it was almost a protectionist measure and that they did not want it. let me be very clear: if we do not accept the carbon adjustment at the borders, we will indeed take protectionist measures, but we will protect others. we will protect india, china, russia, brazil and so on. because what is border carbon adjustment? this is not a tax, it's the polluter pays idea. can you imagine, a few weeks before cop21, that we europeans are going to send the following message: pollution will only be paid for by european production? polluters outside the european union will also be exempt from paying for their pollution. that's the message we're sending. do we want to take it on collectively? i'm not going to! i will conclude by simply saying that the ball is now in the court of my colleagues, of us. we shall be voting very shortly. therefore, each individual will have to take responsibility for his or her own choice of voting. i would ask you, madam commissioner, to be courageous and not to let yourself be convinced by people and structures that defend special interests. do as we do, defend the public interest, because the public interest is the defence of an industry which serves 500 million europeans.
mr president, madam commissioner, dear marianne thyssen, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work, which highlights the two characteristics which should lead us to review our policies on health and safety at work. this is the evolution of tasks and the ageing of the workforce. let us remember that every year work accidents cause more than 4 000 deaths and probably more than 150 000 potentially fatal diseases. in the face of these alarming figures, we should not be tempted to respond with other figures, that is to say, standards and quotas which would be added to those already in place. the results have proved that this policy is disconnected from reality and therefore ineffective. some policies put in place by member states are more likely to destroy jobs than to protect workers. indeed, some rules are inapplicable and represent a brake on entrepreneurship and thus on the economy and employment. i will cite the french example of the "account of hardship", a genuine gas factory which is not applicable. in conclusion, yes, we must find solutions to ensure the best possible working conditions for workers, but realistic and effective solutions for the 21st century. i am convinced that we can combine competitiveness and well-being at work without one being a burden for the other and i would like to say to my socialist colleague that we have never considered health as a bureaucratic burden; it's the bureaucracy that is a bureaucratic burden.
the question is "blue cardboard". i thank president weber for expressing his solidarity with the french republic, but i am surprised at his stigmatizing remarks and the climate of conflict he maintains, while we are all mobilized to bring about the pnr. we have seen the exploitation of a coherent position by the socialists, who in the libe committee voted against a text which did not include any of the french demands, and who allowed and wanted negotiations to begin in order to reach a pnr by the end of the year. i hope, mr pittella, that mr weber will support us so that we can achieve this nrp together by the end of 2015.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, france went through a most terrible ordeal on friday, 13 november. i think the first thing to do to show respect for the victims is to name what killed them. but i have not heard the name of the murderer mentioned by our french leaders, nor in any of the speeches i have heard this morning. the killer is not terrorism. terrorism is the weapon in the killer's hand. the killer is the ideology he carries and in the name of which terrorism kills. this is islamic fundamentalism and you have to say it, because if you don't say it, if you can't name the enemy, then obviously you can't fight it. but maybe some of you are embarrassed to mention it. because to name him is to call into question a number of international friendships. this raises the question of whether we can continue to have saudi arabia and qatar as allies. this raises the question of turkey's ambiguity in relation to islamic fundamentalism. it forces us to look ourselves in the eye and say that, yes, the whole set of international agreements that we have made, international alliances that we have made, actually push us to be today objectively the allies of islamic fundamentalism rather than the enemies of it. so i propose that we change these alliances and i consider that all those who fight against islamic fundamentalism should be considered allies, without any reservations. this is obviously through muslim countries that are fighting against islamic fundamentalism: egypt, the united arab emirates. this too, of course, goes through russia. it goes through iran. then, as part of this grand coalition, we can consider being effective against islamic fundamentalism. but in many ways - and i have to say this - france's alienation from stupid european policies is now an obstacle to the return of french security. at the forefront of these idiotic policies is the age-old question of mass immigration, which is the cradle of communalism and the answer to the questions you ask yourself. but why are there terrorists who were born on our soil, in europe? well, because mass immigration has brought about communalism, and communalism is the breeding ground in which islamic fundamentalism comes to seek out and recruit its future soldiers. the european commission announces that three million migrants will arrive in the european union next year. of course we don't equate migrants with terrorists. but what i denounced in this parliament in september, namely the infiltration of jihadists in the midst of the flows of migrants, is a reality. that reality killed last friday. you can pretend not to see it, but this reality is there and we can't ignore it. to continue to allow these flows of migrants to go unchecked, when you know full well that the union and the countries bordering the union are totally incapable of controlling anything, let alone the identity of those who arrive, is to deprive ourselves of the means to combat this terrible danger. so i say to you, we want our national borders back. we do not trust the frontiers of europe, which are a real sieve. today, french borders are once again temporarily controlled. we will do everything in our power to ensure that they are brought under control in a definitive way. you talk about controls, intelligence, but what controls? the passports that are held by terrorists are not fake passports. these are real passports issued by the islamic state in the administrations they've taken over in syria. this too is a reality that must be faced. in the same way, you imposed austerity on us. this austerity has forced us to disarm. it is because of the austerity that the union has imposed on countries that we have fewer military, we have fewer police, we have fewer gendarmes, we have fewer customs officers. we don't want your austerity policy anymore. we don't want you to decide what's priority in our budget anymore. we want to regain our budgetary sovereignty again, so that we can decide that it is more useful for us today to give budgetary priority to the security of our territory. we want to decide that! since november 13, the mood of the french has changed. the european institutions must understand that for us, nothing will ever be the same again. the madness of migration, the hatred of borders, the "austerity" obsession, the wrong choices in international alliances have become dangers clearly identified by the french. a growing minority shared our views on these issues. no doubt the eye is now very largely lucid. we will continue to denounce these dangers in order to defend the safety of the french people against what i consider to be criminal actions by the european institutions.
mr president, for decades the majority of this parliament, the governments of the member states and the european commission have encouraged the mass immigration of populations too often heterogeneous in relation to our peoples, our values, our history, our aspirations. a multicultural society is a multi-conflict society. you encouraged the granting of our citizenship to people who didn't deserve it and didn't ask for it. you demanded the retention on our territories of those who were even guilty of crimes and misdemeanours, whose behaviour should have led to their immediate and definitive expulsion. you have destroyed the frontiers which you now want to restore, in haste and confusion, at least temporarily. you have tolerated, even financed, the activities of proselytes, of islamic extremists interpreting their sacred texts as justification for their calls for crime. you are reaping the bitter fruits of your policies. do you believe that by expressing your compassion you are absolving yourself of your responsibilities? you think you're doing this by imposing a record of every airline passenger whose flight is already being tracked by the airlines, by disarming hunters or honest citizens, as if terrorists had registered their weapons with the administration. we have the information, what we need is action, but you're not capable of it anymore.
madam president, on behalf of the french delegation of the group of the european people's party, i would like to express my gratitude to all our colleagues, to our partners, to the presidency, to the minister, and to the commission for their sympathy. after the migration crisis, islamist terrorism has brought home to us the impotence of our states when they want to act alone and one of the fundamental weaknesses of the european union. even where it has legal competence, it does not have the administrative means, let alone the financial means, to apply directly itself. it must rely on the goodwill of the member states and their services, and that is where it all gets stuck. as far as the fight against terrorism is concerned, the first action plan was adopted after 9/11, 14 years ago. where are we? we have created a european coordinator for the fight against terrorism. he has no staff, no budget. what is worse is that we have developed effective means and we are now finding that they are all being used in a scandalously under-utilized way by the services of the member states. this is the case with europol, eurojust and the sis ii information file, which took us seven years to develop together. as for the pnr, i find that we are not taking responsibility. i hope we don't have to wait for the next bombing. in conclusion, we are able to legislate in good weather. this parliament likes to lecture the world on morality at all times, but when there are serious crises, we are unable to prevent them or to manage them. we need a political europe. let's organize it, let's organize ourselves to make politics and not just good feelings.
madam president, i would first like to thank all the colleagues who sent messages of solidarity with the french republic to the french delegation and also thank the colleagues who, here in the european parliament, allowed the national anthem, the marseillaise, to be heard in this chamber. but to those who confuse french identity with the migration issue, to those who forget that french identity is linked to welcome, i would like to remind the president of the republic of what he said to the greek parliament when, on an official visit last october, he reminded us that we should appeal to the intelligence of the people and not arouse their fears. in this sense we must show solidarity with regard to what has happened in paris, saint-denis, but also in beirut, bamako and tunis. we must have a european response to this situation. we need more internal security, more external security, more internal solidarity, more external solidarity. internal solidarity this is of course the pnr. we are working to get it and i hope that by the end of the year, rather than adding fuel to the fire, we will have reached the necessary agreement, which is part of the mechanism, as we know. as regards external security, the french request for the first time to invoke article 42 (7) shows us how much progress we need to make in order to establish a europe of defence and not suffer the disintegration of the syrian state alongside us, powerless. mobilization of foreign policy. internal solidarity, because we cannot allow a situation to develop in which the terrorist threat and the flaws in the system too quickly unravel the agreements that have been worked so hard to achieve between the member states and create and fertilise amalgamations. the main point must not be forgotten: syrian refugees are first and foremost victims of the same enemy as ours, namely daesh. we must also ensure that our economic policies dry up the soil on which terrorists recruit in our neighbourhoods, in our territories. finally, external solidarity, because, as chancellor merkel has said here, we must also rethink our policy so that the state can be established in these countries, democracy can exist and people can live with a prospect of living in decent conditions. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr tajani's blue card was certainly a response to my speech, but i want to share with him my conviction that when diplomats failed to see the situation of women in afghanistan deteriorating, and took too long to understand that when the situation of women is affected, the whole of civilization is affected. we're still paying the price. i therefore fully agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the question of the status of women is also an issue on which democracies must be constantly mobilized.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank each and every one of you, on behalf of my french colleagues in the group, for your messages of friendship and support which have warmed our hearts. paris has been stricken with what she holds most dear: her youth. it was his children who were wounded, his children who were murdered. paris is suffering, but paris continues to live and to stand thanks to the solidarity, the unity of its people, of the whole country and of europe. what do these terrorists who have chosen to become the enemies of our society, our values, our way of life want? they want life to stop. that's why we'll keep living. they want war between us. that is why we will not give up on mutual understanding. and they want us to be afraid. that is why we must take all the decisions to protect, really protect, and defend, really defend our fellow citizens! this is what we expect, what we demand of the european leaders, the heads of state and government. because we know the threat is there. it's serious and it's durable. the urgent need is to build a europe of security and intelligence. a genuine european pnr, the sharing of data on terrorism suspects, the creation of a file on foreign fighters, systematic checks at the schengen external borders are measures that everyone is waiting for, since terrorism knows no borders. the urgent need is to mobilize against the totalitarian fanaticism that kills, tortures, beheads, crucifies, rapes. the major powers, the united states, russia, the european union, and the regional powers, including turkey and iran, must unite to intensify the fight against the islamic state. but at the same time, and this is essential, they must work towards a political solution to stabilise syria. tunis, bamako, paris, beirut, sharm el-sheikh, baghdad, ankara, the list of recent attacks is long, too long. the times we live in are going to be difficult. they will require european leaders to keep pace with events and european peoples to remain united, united and united. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". what we owe to the victims, dear colleagues, what we owe to the 130 dead in paris and the hundreds of injured, is a response characterized by firmness and a guarantee of the safety of our fellow citizens. the first of the freedoms is security.
madam president, mr president, let me begin by bowing once again to the victims of the crimes committed in paris and saint-denis, as well as to those in lebanon, yemen, mali, tunisia, the tourists on the russian plane, the victims in ankara, the victims in cameroon, but also those in syria, iraq and elsewhere. i also want to thank all of you who sent messages of solidarity to france after the murderous madness it has suffered. we are still and again overwhelmed, shocked, bruised by these lives stolen in the flower of age, by the massacre of this beautiful, ardent and smiling youth, fallen under the fire of bloody fanaticism. our urgent duty today is to promote human solidarity, civic unity, to do everything possible to ensure that our fellow citizens of the muslim faith are not confused with murderous obscurantism. our duty is to make people aware that refugees are not the cause of terrorism, but that they are its first victims. it is our duty to contribute to the security and protection of our fellow citizens, bearing in mind that security is all the stronger the more freedoms and democracy are preserved. it is our duty to reflect on the past, on the causes that may have produced these abominations. among these, the wars that destroyed iraq and then libya. the troubled alliances with the suppliers and financiers of the new fascisms, the current reorientations of political, diplomatic and military strategies, placing them under the aegis of the un, are the first steps. but it is time to get the gulf monarchies and turkey - which shot down a russian plane yesterday that was fighting daesh - out of their troubled games and to clearly support the kurdish forces that are acting on the ground to push back the islamic state. the positive role of public services must be taken as a lesson and the current budgetary restrictions must be overcome. it is time for human investment in the common goods of police, health, customs, justice, local authorities, education and culture. at the same time, we need to rethink european cooperation in the field of security and justice to make it effective. finally, there will be no way out unless we give the people new hope, which is why the european union should take the initiative of major euro-mediterranean and euro-african reconstruction and co-development plans in the field of infrastructure and services, in order to enable the people to access the common human good. think about it, if we stopped military spending for just one week, that would allow all children to go to school. all over the world, in recent days, the marseillaise, our french national anthem, has been heard. may the triptych of our republic live with him everywhere, in the congress of life: freedom, equality, brotherhood. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr frunzulică, what i can see is that there have been two occasions, the first time under the responsibility of mr solana, where provisions such as those you are mentioning have been made. i believe that these provisions were revised in 2008 and we are not able to coordinate our intelligence and security services today. so yes, we need european cooperation, but not just a security system. security, yeah! the security guard, i don't think that's the way to go. it also goes through human development, as i said earlier.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank all those who have supported us in the face of the horror that france has experienced. we share the grief of the families and friends of the victims, and the pain and shock of the injured. we share the horror that has struck the french, but also that of other countries, victims of barbarism, such as tunisia yesterday. i thank all the public services for their dedicated work and hard work. we must also commend the solidarity shown by citizens who have come to the aid of complete strangers, who have opened their doors to these strangers seeking refuge in the chaos. but some of the words in this house do not seem to me to be up to the task. some reactions are nauseating, aiming to use this drama for political purposes to attack their political opponent. you are promoting our values - freedom, equality, fraternity - without recognizing the solidarity that underlies them, without grasping the humanist message of a nation that, struck by hatred, has responded with tolerance. to act effectively, let us ask ourselves about the world we live in and shape with our laws. radicalisation, hatred and wars do not arise out of thin air, there is a fertile ground for jihadism: inequality and oppression that are growing stronger every day. it is also a society in which some scapegoat those refugees who are fleeing acts as intolerable as the attacks of 13 november. so, in response to this, we are bombarded in our territory with symbolic and ineffective announcements: the withdrawal of nationality, the multiplication of laws of general surveillance. we're wasting precious time trying to convince the public that these security gadgets are the answer to the terrorist threat. i cannot find words strong enough to denounce the lack of cooperation that has allowed the intolerable to happen. already in january, the heads of state and government promised us more cooperation, more coordination between the police and the judiciary. yet ten months later, they come to us with the same promise, even though we have evidence that the sharing of information between france, germany and belgium might have prevented this macabre friday the 13th. ironically, it was thanks to third countries that the french authorities were able to trace the accomplices of the terrorists. let us open up our intelligence services, share our information, europeanise the fight against terrorism, set up a european prosecutor's office, seriously combat arms trafficking and tackle the illicit financing of terrorism. let's get this straight. as for our foreign policy, france and the european states have for too long supported dangerous links with qatar and saudi arabia, and i would like to conclude by saying that our democracy, which is their target, must be our weapon. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs rivasi, you have made some very interesting remarks, and i share them to a certain extent, particularly when you denounce the dangerous links we have with qatar and saudi arabia. however, you have also made some rather obscure and, for me, more disturbing remarks about the terrain which is favourable to the development of terrorism in europe. so i ask you straight out: do you accuse the national front of having anything to do with the development of islamist terrorism in france? thank you for giving a clear answer.
answer is "blue cardboard". mr lebreton, listen to the national front, you bring it all back to this. but there's more important things than the national front. there was a sense of exclusion among these populations. this is a failure in the face of the integration that would have been possible at the level of the different suburbs and different territories. this is where the soil for exclusion is found, which can lead to jihadism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the horror, the grief and the sorrow, a politician has the duty to face reality with lucidity. it is time to become aware of the paralysing angelicism which characterizes part of this parliament. i take as an example what mr verhofstadt has pointed out, namely the blocking of the pnr file for four years under the pretext of respect for individual freedom. but too much freedom kills freedom and damages human rights. it would also be time to call things by their right names. why are we talking about daesh? this exotic name remains nebulous and does not reflect reality. the criminologist, mr. alain bauer, has rightly pointed this out. the term "islamic state" accurately reflects the reality. we are dealing with a state and this state is massacring in the name of a religion. it is in the name of this religion that he destroys our treasures of civilization, that he slaughters his own countrymen and it is out of religious hatred that he kills our youth who are guilty of loving music and wine. he hates our freedom to believe in god or not. as stupid as it was, it wasn't bush's america's intervention in iraq in 2003 that created the chaos. this intervention was only a match. it's a fire that's been burning for a long time. the colonization of the population that is overwhelming france has been ideologically and politically organized by our governments for more than thirty years. no wonder the islamic state recruits its terrorists from our country. what are the responses to these states' strikes in syria? i'm not sure these strikes in syria are appeasing the youth of our suburbs, the radical islamist youth in revolt. we have an immigration problem. it is uncontrolled and unassimilated immigration that is jeopardizing the balance of our societies. saying that is not racist or xenophobic. we must denounce the complacency of our governments towards qatar, as everyone here has said, and towards saudi arabia. under the pretext of juicy commercial interests, we are dealing as partners with states which advocate radical islam and which have the cynicism to refuse to accept migrants, even muslims... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, this is the second time in two days that mrs dodds has insulted and defamed our colleagues in sinn féin. we therefore ask you once again to bring this matter before the bureau of parliament. it is unacceptable that colleagues should be insulted and slandered in the context of a democratic debate.
madam president, i thank the colleagues and the institutions who have joined us in the french trial. france, my dear colleagues, has always defeated its aggressors and will do so once again on this occasion. without getting lost in security fantasies and, i hope, without losing sight of the principles that animate the best of its republican history. in our time, the chief virtue, it seems to me, is discernment. we would gain, here as elsewhere, by not talking about a war of civilizations, because what we are experiencing is not a war of civilizations for the reason that daesh is not a civilization but a totalitarianism. this is not a war of civilizations because we are not facing warriors but cowardly murderers who attack defenseless people by surprise. as for discernment, islam is no more involved in this matter than any other faith. once again, religious fundamentalism is the mask of a war for and through money. we must also stop stigmatising poverty as a source of crime. crime has no social origin. the crime has an ideological and human origin. he comes from all walks of life. it would be good if we did not go pointing fingers in such a rude way in this or that neighborhood when the children of the rich and those of the poor can be swept away by the madness of death. and if we have to make a point here, let us remember the responsibility taken by all those who wanted to weaken the states in their royal missions. in my country, there are 12,000 fewer police officers, the army has been reduced by 20 per cent. all this is one of the causes that contributed to the lack of means to withstand the blows we were about to receive. we must put an end to this policy of weakening the public service. as has been said, we must put an end to this benevolent blindness and amnesia towards certain countries which are only doing in a large way and with the institutions of the state what a group like daesh and others are doing. the cause of terrorism is found in wars between powers for control of an area of the world where control and wealth are produced immensely. so, ending the war is the only way to end terrorism. we will not learn anything more about the risk of aids than we already know by screwing the whole population of europe. the cause of terrorism is in the war. it's the war that needs to be stopped. the cause of terrorism is money. it is these circulations that must be stopped. i am in favour of a global coalition, because it is global humanity that is at stake. a global coalition under the authority and umbrella of the only body with a global mandate: the un. at this moment, let us share the motto of the enlightenment appropriate to my homeland and proposed to all humanity: "freedom, equality, fraternity"; not "prn for everyone"!
mr president, after the tragedy in paris, we are still in the midst of mourning, but also in the midst of an investigation which is far from being completed, and this requires us to be very calm and to exercise great caution before drawing conclusions about the malfunctions that will have to be identified. it is certain, however, that a thorough examination of conscience will be required at all levels. even today i have often heard europe being called into question in this respect. the union cannot escape this examination, but it must also be acknowledged that the process is a little too rapid in areas such as internal security, counter-terrorism and intelligence, where the bulk of the prerogatives remain national prerogatives, with states which are scrupulously and jealously ensuring that this is still the case. it is also true that the european institutions, including this parliament, cannot refuse to face the scale of the threat and the necessary adaptation of our security arrangements. many of us have forgotten that the schengen model, of course, provides for freedom of movement, but in a secure area at its external borders and well coordinated internally. these dimensions have been dramatically neglected and must be remedied urgently! the pnr, as we have often spoken about, is a collective tool which is not a magic wand, of course, but which has an obvious utility in dealing with the scale and plasticity of suspicious movements on our continent. we must therefore act now, with realism.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, your remarks about the victims and france have touched and moved us, but this is no longer the time for mere sympathy. the paris attacks and the investigation in brussels have revealed a truth that we may find difficult to accept. the threat is no longer outside or at the gates of the european union, the terrorists are on our territory and can strike anyone at any time. so it's time to take action for the safety of our fellow citizens. the first step is to put into practice the tools we already have, which might have helped to avoid these tragedies. several frontex provisions are not effective, such as the establishment of the rapid reaction capability or the creation of european border guard teams. why would you do that? the pnr discussions are still blocked. why would you do that? we must weigh in on international relations, including in the context of article 47 (2), but we cannot wait. we can therefore report back to the council to recommend security and strategic measures. let's do it, but let's do it now.
mr president, mr minister, beyond the pain, the grief and the wounds caused by the paris attacks, our duty as europeans is to rise to this challenge, to fight those who want to destroy and divide us. the 500 million europeans understood this immediately. the islamic state, on november 13th, not only wanted to attack paris, france, but the whole of europe. it is what we represent in our diversity that is under attack. we are at war, at war to defend our freedom, our values and our way of life, at war to protect our children, the children of our countries. we must fight this fight by means of more europe for better control of europe's external borders, more europe for the establishment of a european centre for intelligence and the fight against terrorism within europol, more europe for the fight against jihadist websites which have a devastating effect on certain young people in our european cities, more europe for the fight against the financing of terrorism: the sale of oil, arms, works of art and smuggled cigarettes. it is also to better face the terrorist challenge that the schengen instrument must be fully implemented, as jacques delors, our former president of the european commission, reminded us a few days ago. yes, we need more europe to protect us, and it is because we have more europe that we will fight not only the terrorists but also the nationalists in europe.
mr president, just a few days ago, the coordinator of the paris attacks, abaaoud, boasted in an interview with daesh's official propaganda outlet, dabik, that he had been able to come and go, despite being pursued by all the intelligence services. yes, this terrorist, who was issued a european arrest warrant, sentenced by default to twenty years' imprisonment, was able to travel across europe several times, going back and forth from syria, travelling from cologne to istanbul, without ever being intercepted. in the face of this, europe must take three initiatives. first, to make access to external borders more difficult, not only for foreigners but also for european citizens. secondly, respond to frontex's requests, which officially recalled that only 40% of its needs were met by the states. finally, of course, the adoption of the pnr, which has been the subject of much debate for many, many years. europe is both a major source of recruitment and a priority target. too disunited, it is powerless. the urgent need is to ensure that, in the face of this terrorist challenge, it is no longer the problem but the solution.
mr president, after the attacks, it is normal for france and europe to go through a period of reflection. but after the time of the gathering, the real questions will have to be asked. question number one. in the last two weeks, police in france and belgium have seized several hundred guns. who would believe for a second that these weapons were located seven days ago? we knew where those guns were. we didn't go looking for them. why would you do that? question number two. there are 100 radical mosques in france. what are we waiting for to close them? the third question concerns the pnr. our minister of the interior came to brussels and said he wanted a pnr. it's a good time for us, too. but why does he not say that a number of members of his own majority here in the european parliament have blocked the adoption of this pnr? i have dozens of questions like that. so i say to the french government and all the european governments: stop saying, as you have done since charlie, that you are going to fight terrorism. stop saying it and do it! stop communicating, stop the poses, stop the incantation, stop the amateurism and act!
in writing. the recent terrorist attacks in paris, which killed 132 people and injured more than 415, are a terrible tragedy that has left a mark on us and will continue to do so for a long time. i would like to pay tribute to the families of the victims and express my full support for the law enforcement agencies who are doing a remarkable job. however, after this period of mourning, it is necessary to take stock and provide the right answers to the problems. we must put an end to this european union of the hand, abolish schengen free movement and re-establish genuine control at the national borders of the member states and not at those of the union, which it is unable to guard. the union and our governments must realise that uncontrolled mass immigration in europe can no longer afford to assimilate and that we can no longer welcome 'migrants' even though many europeans are no longer able to find housing, food or work. finally, we must act on the ground in military operations to combat daesh with all the actors fighting terrorism and end our relations with countries such as qatar or saudi arabia, which openly finance terrorism.
in writing. the attacks in france have awakened the conscience of europe and the world. however, daesh has been waging war in the middle east and carrying out terrorist acts in many countries for several years. yesterday, tunisia was hit again. it is time for the european union to turn from words to deeds and to organise itself at last and quickly to combat terrorism. it is about protecting its people and preserving its values. we must have a european pnr by the end of the year. the police and intelligence services of the member states must cooperate more closely and the fight against arms trafficking must be considerably strengthened. more funding is also needed to prevent radicalisation and thus tackle terrorism at its root. beyond the military attacks carried out by france in particular, the union and the member states have a responsibility to help dismantle the financial channels that support daesh, money being the lifeblood of the war. all the member states of the european union must feel involved. daesh is not targeting a nationality. it's hitting the free world and its values, our freedoms, our way of life, peace.
mr president, i have 26 years' experience in this house and i fully understand the difficulties of your role. i think that, beyond this question of form, there is a fundamental problem which was raised by our british colleague, namely that we are actually voting on too many texts and our texts are far too confused and far too wordy. they are not sufficiently concise and are, it must be said, far removed from the european legal ideal. when i first entered this parliament, the strasbourg session was actually a week long. it ended on friday and even on friday afternoon. as a result, there were three actual voting sessions. but for some time now all the votes have been concentrated on wednesday at noon. a neighbour of mrs le pen was criticised for having voted for her once or twice, but on that day, for example, the voting session had lasted two and a half hours. it must be understood that a number of colleagues also have physiological obligations which may sometimes lead them to refrain from participating in our european democracy. therefore, i do not blame you at all. there are two remedies. a short-term remedy is to learn that in german dafür, dagegen, enthaltung, means for, against and abstention, in greek iper, katà, apochi, etc. it does not take much experience to assimilate the language of each of the chairmen of the meeting. the other remedy, more serious, the substantive remedy, is to vote less on texts and to vote more on them.
in writing. ‒ the project aims to revise the forecasts for traditional own resources (customs duties), the budgeting of the remaining vat and gni own resources balances for 2014 and the budgeting of the vat and gni own resources balance for 2015 as well as the updating of the forecasts for other revenue. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the non-compliance of the measure. in total, this reduces the contribution of the member states to the 2015 union budget by eur 9,4 billion, and for france by eur 1,45 billion. however, the report calls on the member states to take advantage of this reduction in their contributions to provide more financial resources to deal with the migration crisis and, in particular, to distribute immigrants in rural areas. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal follows the revision of the revenue forecasts for the 2015 budget of the european union. the revenue was much higher than expected: a surplus of eur 9.4 billion. therefore, it was decided to reduce the member states' contribution by an equivalent amount, i.e. eur 1.45 billion for france: a decision which i can only welcome. however, the report recommends that this money be used to finance the management of the migrant crisis (including their distribution in rural areas). in these circumstances, there was no way of voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on the report on the draft amending budget concerning own resources and the european data controller. while i welcome the fact that this revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources, in particular customs duties, will lead to a reduction in the member states' contribution to the eu budget for 2015 of eur 9.4 billion - or eur 1.45 billion for france - i cannot hide my objection to the rapporteur's call for these additional funds to be used to welcome 'unprecedented numbers of refugees in the cities and regions of europe'. the crisis of recent months and the insecurity which has brought to light the use by islamic fundamentalists of incoherent migration flows to enter europe and carry out attacks, obliges us to take stock of the situation and to stop financing this mass immigration, which is a danger not only to our security but also an impossibility in view of our economic and social capacity to welcome it.
in writing. ‒ the commission has revised its own resources forecast. the revenue from customs duties was in fact more than eur 800 million. in addition, the remaining vat and gni balances for 2014 and the balance for 2015 amount to eur 7,1 billion, while unanticipated revenue, including from competition-related fines, is around eur 1,47 billion. this additional revenue reduces the contribution of the member states to the 2015 budget of the european union by eur 9,4 billion, or eur 1,45 billion for france. however, the report calls on the member states to use the reduction in their contribution to the common budget to increase funding for infrastructure to accommodate illegal migrants. the current migration crisis facing europe is intended by the commission to put downward pressure on wages in order to promote the competitiveness of large multinationals. although this draft amending budget allows france to have additional budgetary room for manoeuvre, i abstained on this text which encourages the states to increase the funds allocated to accommodate illegal migrants.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes a correction to the 2015 eu budget to increase the member states' contribution, which has fallen by €9.4 billion, partly due to €2.3 billion in windfall revenue from competition-related fines and higher than expected customs duties. the rapporteur believes that the financial commitments for the trust funds for africa and syria are still short of 2.3 billion. it called on the member states to honour their promises in draft amending budget 8/2015, to fund the two european funds to help refugees and migrants in syria, and to tackle the root causes of migration in africa. i supported this report because i believe that it is necessary for member states to implement the decisions they committed to earlier this year.
in writing. ‒ this report recommended that the surplus of this year's eu budget be used for the reception of migrants. while this year's revenue was 9.4 billion higher than expected, this money should have gone to the contributing states of the union. the eu's member countries contribute billions of euros to the eu's finances each year. france should therefore recover part of its clearly overvalued contribution, by recovering eur 1,45 billion. this report, instead of returning to france what belongs to it, is intended to encourage the states to use this budgetary surplus for the reception of migrants in rural areas. this is not acceptable. if i support the reduction of the french contribution, i cannot see it being allocated to migrants. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it seeks to strengthen the provision of funds to migrants.
in writing. ‒ this text is a draft revision of the revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources, the budgeting of the remaining vat and gni own resources balances for 2014 and the budgeting of the vat and gni own resources balance for 2015 as well as the updating of the forecasts for other revenue. the commission has revised its own resources forecasts. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the non-compliance of the measures. in total, this reduces the member states' contribution to the eu budget for 2015 by €9.4 billion, and for france by €1.45 billion. the text calls on the member states to take advantage of this reduction in their contributions to provide more financial resources to deal with the migration crisis. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague eider gardiazabal rubial on draft amending budget no 8/2015. this project reviews national contributions to the eu budget in the light of developments in terms of gross national product (gnp). this will reduce the member states' contributions by eur 9.4 billion compared with the previous ten years. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ the commission has revised its own resources forecast. the revenue from customs duties was thus more than eur 800 million, the remainder of the 2014 vat and gni balances and the 2015 balance of eur 7.1 billion, and unanticipated revenue from, inter alia, competition-related fines amounted to eur 1.47 billion. in total, this reduces the member states' contribution to the 2015 eu budget by €9.4 billion, or €1.45 billion for france. however, the report calls on member states to take advantage of this reduction in their contributions to free up more financial means to deal with the migration crisis, and to put in place 'additional financial efforts' (...) to achieve the reception of an unprecedented number of refugees in the cities and regions of 'europe'. it is clear that this small contribution cannot meet such an objective. so i refrained.
in writing. - i abstained on this project. we welcome the commission's efforts to revise its own resources forecasts, which reduce the member states' contribution to the 2015 european budget by €9.4 billion (a reduction of €4.45 billion for france). however, we cannot accept that this report should at the same time encourage member states to 'take advantage' of this reduction in their contributions to free up more funds for migrants. the commission's use of this reduction in the contribution prevents us from supporting this report.
in writing. ‒ this report, which is trivial and has no relation to its real political purpose, takes the irresponsibility of the european parliamentary institution to the extreme. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. at the beginning of november, 2.3 billion in emergency appropriations had still not been paid, despite the fact that they had been announced at various extraordinary summits of heads of state and ministers since the beginning of the year. while parliament has the possibility to vote against such an aberration proposed by the council, this report is not without regret that such room for manoeuvre could not be used to deal with the migrant crisis. finally, he expects the states to honour their commitments. i am voting against such a demonstration of the uselessness of the european parliament's votes.
in writing. ‒ the project concerns the revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources (customs duties), the budgeting of the remaining vat and gni own resources balances for 2014 and the budgeting of the vat and gni own resources balance for 2015 as well as the updating of the forecasts for other revenue. the commission has revised its own resources forecasts. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the compensation for the non-compliance of the measures. in total, this reduces the member states' contribution to the eu budget for 2015 by €9.4 billion, and for france by €1.45 billion. however, the report calls on the member states to take advantage of this reduction in their contributions to provide more financial resources to deal with the migration crisis. it called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial contribution to the eu budget is used to manage the distribution of migrants in rural areas. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget 2015 no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the commission's revenue forecasts for the year 2015. the commission has revised its own resources forecasts. the revenue from customs duties was thus more than eur 800 million, the remainder of the 2014 vat and gni balances and the 2015 balance of eur 7.1 billion, and unanticipated revenue from, inter alia, competition-related fines amounted to eur 1.47 billion. in total, this reduces the member states' contribution to the eu budget for 2015 by €9.4 billion, or €1.45 billion for france. however, the report calls on member states to use this decline in their contributions to free up more financial means to deal with the migration crisis, and to put in place "additional financial efforts (...) to achieve the reception of an unprecedented number of refugees in the cities and regions of europe". it is clear that this minor contribution cannot satisfy such an objective, and it would therefore be problematic to give this report a blank check. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this report on the draft amending budget for 2015 indicates that the revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources and the reduction of the commitment and payment appropriations in the budget of the european data protection supervisor will result in a reduction of eur 9.4 billion in member states' contributions to the eu budget. it called on the eu to make additional financial efforts to provide humanitarian aid along transit routes and to host unprecedented numbers of refugees in europe's cities and regions. i am very much against this measure, because i believe that it is better to finance humanitarian aid to refugees in countries close to the conflict areas and to secure the union's external borders as a priority. that is why i abstained from voting on this text.
in writing. draft amending budget no 8/2015 concerns the revision of the commission's revenue forecasts for the financial year 2015. the commission has revised its own resources forecasts. the revenue from customs duties was thus more than eur 800 million, the remainder of the 2014 vat and gni balances and the 2015 balance of eur 7.1 billion, and unanticipated revenue from, inter alia, competition-related fines amounted to eur 1.47 billion. in total, this reduces the member states' contribution to the eu budget for 2015 by €9.4 billion, or €1.45 billion for france. however, the report calls on member states to use this decline in their contributions to free up more financial means to deal with the migration crisis, and to put in place "additional financial efforts (...) to achieve the reception of an unprecedented number of refugees in the cities and regions of europe". it is clear that this minor contribution cannot satisfy such an objective, and it would therefore be problematic to give this report a blank check. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gardiazabal rubial report on draft amending budget no 8/2015 on own resources and the european data protection supervisor, concerning the revision of national contributions to the union budget. the report was widely supported, without any problems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which takes note of the amendments to the 2015 budget, particularly in terms of member states' contributions. the text takes note of the fact that the amending budget for 2015 provides for a reduction of more than eur 120 000 in the appropriations entered in the budget of the european data protection supervisor, but also a reduction of eur 9 400 million in the member states' contribution to the general budget of the eu in 2015. at the same time, the report recalls the need to provide greater budgetary capacity to respond to the refugee crisis we are facing. i also support the call in this report for member states to honour their financial commitments to the trust fund for africa, the trust fund for syria and the un refugee aid agencies.
in writing. ‒ eu revenues are higher than expected. the text therefore provides for a reduction in the contribution of the member states, i.e. eur 1.45 billion for france. but the report clearly calls on the latter to take advantage of the planned reduction in their contributions to free up more financial resources to deal with the migration crisis, and to put in place "additional financial efforts (...) to achieve the reception of an unprecedented number of refugees in the cities and regions of europe". it is clear that this minor contribution cannot satisfy such an objective, and it would therefore be problematic to give this report a blank check. i therefore choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ as expected, the irresponsible statements of the commission and several members to the european parliament immediately resulted in a sharp increase in the number of refugees, mostly economic immigrants. it is not new, but the current crisis has made it possible for the european people and some of their leaders to become aware, albeit belatedly, of the urgency of re-establishing border controls. overwhelmed by the migration crisis they have largely caused, unable to stem the flow of foreigners coming to settle in western countries, the european union institutions, in order not to lose face and give the illusion that they are acting, thought it useful to increase european funds for immigration in the draft budget for 2016. they agreed to mobilise an additional €1.53 billion over the next four years, of which €710 million will go directly to the 2016 budget. the failure of the schengen area and the dangers of mass immigration require the abolition of european funding which is insignificant in relation to the migration problem and the return of full control of all borders to the states. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report recommends the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to deal with the migration crisis... to the tune of eur 1.53 billion. knowing how the eurocrats want to 'face' this crisis, that is to say by encouraging it, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i could only oppose this report, which is in continuity with the compromise on the 2016 budget and aims to finance the management of uncontrolled flows of migrants on european territory. this report concerns the flexibility instrument and the conciliation committee has decided to allocate eur 1.53 billion to the migrant crisis above the ceilings of heading 3 and 4 of the draft budget. this is an aberration when we know that for several years brussels has been urging the peoples of europe to commit suicide with austerity and that on the other hand they are ready to finance uncontrolled immigration without counting the cost, which represents a real danger in terms of security and a structural impossibility in terms of reception. once again, the budget shows the reality that the european union prefers others to itself.
in writing. ‒ the commission had already proposed in its initial budget to mobilise the flexibility instrument to the tune of eur 123.9 million to finance measures to manage the refugee crisis. that was a lot. instead of taking the necessary measures to cope with this migratory pressure, i.e. the reintroduction of controls at europe's borders and the end of schengen, with the return of these migrants to their territories of origin, the commission decided to revise its position by proposing in its letter of amendment 2/2016 a considerable increase in appropriations of eur 1.5 billion. the conciliation committee added to the sum of 1.53 billion, the bulk of which would be for 2016/2017. i therefore vote against this funding.
in writing. ‒ in its initial draft budget, the european commission envisaged the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to the tune of eur 123.9 million to finance measures to welcome illegal migrants. however, in view of the scale of the problem, the commission decided to revise its position by proposing in its letter of amendment an increase in appropriations of eur 1.5 billion. the conciliation committee agreed on €1.53 billion for the migration crisis. it is absolutely outrageous to see the european commission squandering taxpayers' money when member states are facing a structural economic crisis characterised by mass unemployment, growing social inequalities and an unprecedented increase in the poverty rate. the current macroeconomic conditions do not allow for the reception of these illegal migrants whose arrival is strongly encouraged by the european institutions in order to meet the needs of large multinational companies for cheap labour. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to maximise the budgetary flexibility instrument, in order to allocate more funds to migration management efforts. parliament reiterated that the mobilisation of this instrument, foreseen in the multiannual financial framework (2014-2020), demonstrates the need for the union budget to be more flexible, in the light of the rapidly evolving european agenda. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to deal with the migration crisis. like the compromise on the budget which wanted to allocate surplus funds from the european union to the reception of migrants, this report encourages the use of funds for the same cause. the union is not being reasonable in wanting to allocate more than eur 123 million to the reception of migrants. in doing so, it also exceeded the ceilings for 'citizenship and security' which it had set itself. i will always be firmly opposed to the use of the european union budget, which is already too large for the usefulness of this institution, for such purposes. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it provides too much money for migrants.
in writing. ‒ the statements made by the commission and several members to the european parliament immediately resulted in a sharp increase in the number of refugees, most of them economic migrants. it is not new, but the current crisis has made it possible for the european people and some of their leaders to become aware, albeit belatedly, of the urgency of re-establishing border controls. overwhelmed by the migration crisis they have largely caused, unable to stem the flow of foreigners coming to settle in western countries, the european union institutions, in order not to lose face and give the illusion that they are acting, thought it useful to increase european funds for immigration in the draft budget for 2016. they agreed to mobilise an additional €1.53 billion over the next four years, of which €710 million will go directly to the 2016 budget. the failure of the schengen area and the dangers of mass immigration require the abolition of european funding which is insignificant in relation to the migration problem and the return of full control of all borders to the states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague josé manuel fernandes on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. through this flexibility mechanism, the agencies easo, frontex and europol will each be allocated eur 30, 60 and 30 million respectively to deal with the exceptional influx of refugees on european soil. in addition, €2 672 million from the 2016 budget will be allocated to crisis management and €150 million will be used to strengthen eu humanitarian aid. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which mobilises the flexibility instrument to reallocate part of the budget to deal with the refugee crisis. the commission has therefore decided to extend the period of validity of the aid to the following years:
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis for an amount of eur 1 530 billion in commitment appropriations, including eur 734.2 billion for the financial year 2016. it is imperative to increase the flexibility of the eu budget to support those member states that are on the front line of the unprecedented migration crisis affecting our continent.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures to deal with the refugee crisis. in its initial draft budget, the commission proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to the tune of eur 123.9 million to finance measures to manage the migrant crisis above the ceiling of heading 3 on citizenship and security. however, in view of the scale of the problem, the commission decided to revise its position by proposing an increase in appropriations of eur 1.5 billion. as this report is a continuation of the compromise on the 2016 budget and proposes ever-increasing european funding for the management of the migration crisis, it can only be opposed. we need to re-establish borders and stop mass immigration rather than constantly increasing budgets to welcome migrants.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against this mobilization. this report is only the continuation of the compromise on the 2016 budget, which we had already opposed. this budget provides substantial european funding for the management of the migration crisis and the reception of migrants, which we strongly oppose.
in writing. ‒ the report finds that in the 2016 budget, which the same rapporteur also proposes to approve in another report, the ceilings for appropriations are insufficient to finance decisions on migration and refugees. while there is still time to amend the 2016 budget, this report recommends, under the austerity pressure of the states, to use the flexibility instrument. this is a legal device which makes it possible to exceed the budget voted in the event of unforeseen circumstances or an emergency. but to use it before the budget has even been adopted is a pure procedural misuse. and it is all the more absurd that this instrument of overrun will thus be exhausted in its entirety before the year has even begun. this illegal method will, incidentally, lead to further arrears or delays in payment, because these budgetary commitments, which are made in excess of the budget, are not covered by payment appropriations to enable them to be honoured. by this kind of manoeuvre, the european union is thus preparing to avoid paying for several years the emergency measures it has decided for migrants. i am voting against this report, which is an accomplice to the european union's cynicism in this crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european union bodies increase eu funds for immigration in the 2016 draft budget. they therefore agreed to mobilise an additional €1.53 billion over the next four years, of which €710 million will be allocated directly to the 2016 budget. it should be noted, however, that the commission and certain influential members of parliament have, by their irresponsible statements, exacerbated the refugee crisis we are currently experiencing. moreover, this funding plan is paltry in view of the scale of the problem, only sovereign states can effectively stop this migratory flow. the honourable member is therefore opposed to this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to deal with the migration crisis. it follows the compromise on the 2016 budget reached by parliament and the council. in its initial draft budget, the commission proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to the tune of eur 123.9 million to finance measures to manage the refugee crisis above the ceiling of heading 3 (citizenship and security). however, in view of the scale of the problem, the commission decided to revise its position by proposing in its letter of amendment an increase in appropriations of eur 1.5 billion (the conciliation committee agreed to an amount of eur 1.53 billion). the distribution of payment appropriations would be as follows: eur 710 million in 2016; eur 652.9 million in 2017; eur 82.7 million in 2018; eur 58.5 million in 2019. this report is the continuation of the compromise on the 2016 budget which imposes substantial european funding to make states pay the cost of the migration crisis, which is organized by european elites against the will of the people. so we can only oppose it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to deal with the migration crisis. it follows the compromise on the 2016 budget reached by parliament and the council. in its initial draft budget, the commission proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to the tune of eur 123.9 million to finance measures to manage the refugee crisis above the ceiling of heading 3 (citizenship and security). however, in view of the scale of the problem, the commission decided to revise its position by proposing in its letter of amendment 2/2016 an increase in appropriations of eur 1,5 billion. the conciliation committee agreed on €1.53 billion for the migration crisis above the ceilings of headings 3 and 4. the distribution of payment appropriations would be as follows: eur 710 million in 2016; eur 652.9 million in 2017; eur 82.7 million in 2018; eur 58.5 million in 2019. as this report is a continuation of the compromise on the 2016 budget and proposes substantial european funding for the management of the migration crisis, it can only be opposed. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which calls for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for €1.530 billion in commitment appropriations to finance the european response to the migration crisis affecting it. the text recalls that the ceilings for heading 3 (security and citizenship) and heading 4 (europe in the world) for 2016 do not allow for the full financing of urgent measures in this area, such as securing the external borders by recruiting additional staff to the frontex agency. in order to complete the 2016 budget and to respect the rule of the annual ceiling of eur 471 million for payments under the flexibility instrument, this report recommends that payment appropriations be spread over several years and set at eur 734,2 million in 2016, eur 654,2 million in 2017, eur 83 million in 2018 and eur 58,6 million in 2019.
in writing. i supported this report, which aims to approve the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to take immediate budgetary measures to bail out the financial appropriations allocated to the management of the migrant and refugee crisis. the aim is to reallocate unused budgets from 2014 and 2015 to finance €1.530 billion of migration and refugee measures for the period 2016-2019. an additional €734.2 million will be allocated to the 2016 financial year to enable the european union to respond to the urgency of this crisis.
in writing. this report concerns the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to deal with the migration crisis. it follows the compromise on the 2016 budget reached by parliament and the council. in its initial draft budget, the commission proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to the tune of eur 123.9 million to finance measures to manage the refugee crisis above the ceiling of heading 3 (citizenship and security). however, in view of the scale of the problem, the commission decided to revise its position by proposing in its letter of amendment 2/2016 an increase in appropriations of eur 1,5 billion. the conciliation committee agreed on €1.53 billion for the migration crisis above the ceilings of headings 3 and 4. the distribution of payment appropriations would be as follows: eur 710 million in 2016; eur 652.9 million in 2017; eur 82.7 million in 2018; eur 58.5 million in 2019. as this report is a continuation of the compromise on the 2016 budget and proposes substantial european funding for the management of the migration crisis, it can only be opposed. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fernandes report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for immediate budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. this will cover the proposed allocation of the corresponding payment appropriations of eur 734,2 million for the financial year 2016, eur 654,2 million for the financial year 2017, eur 83 million for the financial year 2018 and eur 58,6 million for the financial year 2019.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. the current refugee crisis facing the european union is historic and requires a response that combines responsibility, courage and respect for our european values. this implies that the union should be provided with the necessary budgetary resources to finance the emergency measures envisaged. we know that the ceilings for heading 3 'security and citizenship' and heading 4 'europe in the world' for 2016 do not allow adequate funding for these measures. that is why we are today mobilising the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 1,530 billion in commitment appropriations, with this additional appropriation coming from the unused amounts of the flexibility instruments for the financial years 2014 and 2015. in addition, no amount will be carried over to the financial year 2017. it is now necessary to ensure that the measures decided are implemented and that each of the actors concerned fulfils its commitments.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which recalls how flexible the eu budget must be in order to cope with crises and their consequences. the text makes it possible to mobilise the flexibility instrument to support, up to eur 66.1 million, exceptional measures to deal with the refugee crisis. the european union must show solidarity and provide its help and contribution in resolving the current migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ this report is a continuation of the compromise on the 2016 budget and proposes substantial european funding for the management of the migration crisis, which i oppose. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to allow for the financing of the relocation plan for asylum seekers within the european union. the first relocations were finally able to take place at the beginning of october, but so far only 150 asylum seekers have been able to benefit from the scheme. while several member states are calling into question most of the commitments they have made in this area, which should concern 160 000 asylum seekers and potential refugees, since these are only syrians, eritreans and iraqis arriving via greece and italy, it seemed important to me to support the continuation of this minimum plan. the release of eur 66.1 million for the 2015 financial year has already taken place, but in order to promote the integration of these refugees and their reception in other member states, for the coming years, the european commission has called for the implementation of measures, including exceptional financial measures, and proposes to allocate eur 734.2 million in 2016, eur 654.2 million in 2017, eur 83 million in 2018 and eur 58.6 million in 2019. i voted for it, of course.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund is designed to enable member states to receive financial support when faced with an emergency situation caused by large-scale or regional natural disasters. this report envisages the entry in the 2016 budget of the sum of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the purpose of paying the defined amount in advance to the requesting states. this is a positive measure that will speed up the disbursement of funds in case of emergency. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to allow advances from the eu solidarity fund to member states experiencing a large-scale natural disaster, with the aim of speeding up the procedure for granting aid when it is justified. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is a show of good sense and sets up for once genuine european solidarity. the solidarity fund enables member states to receive rapid and effective financial support in the event of a natural or regional disaster. as we have seen with the recent floods in croatia, for example, it is an indispensable instrument, and this proposal to include in the 2016 budget the sum of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to pay in advance to the member states in need can only lead to better crisis management such as these. it should also be noted that the new provision allows for an advance payment of up to 10% or eur 30 million, without prejudice to the final decision on the mobilisation of funds. a simplification of a mutual aid instrument which i could only support.
in writing. ‒ regional or larger-scale natural disasters strike rich and poor nations alike. in this context, it is clear that one of the european union's roles is to set up systems to ensure solidarity between member states. the aim is to be able to respond quickly and in a timely manner to the needs of the affected states and to do this, to enter the sum of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations in the 2016 budget as of now. as this measure is intended to speed up the process of granting emergency aid, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund aims to enable member states to receive financial support when faced with an emergency situation caused by large-scale natural disasters. the proposal envisages the entry in the 2016 budget of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to pay in advance to requesting member states in the event of natural disasters in order to speed up the efficiency and timeliness of disbursements. this provision ensures the availability of budgetary resources and allows for the rapid disbursement of aid to the affected countries through the payment of an advance (of up to 10% or eur 30 million) before the final allocation decision is taken, with the understanding that any improperly paid advances are recovered from the member state concerned. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to speed up the procedure for granting aid to a member state in an emergency.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to speed up the disbursement of aid to the affected countries under the european union solidarity fund (eusf), by granting an advance before the final allocation decision is taken. the text provides for the entry in the general budget of the union for 2016 of the amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations. the eusf is designed to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by large-scale natural disasters, by providing up to €500 million to european regions affected by disasters. the advance may only be paid following a preliminary assessment by the commission of the request for assistance under the eusf, may not exceed 10% of the amount of the financial contribution provided for and may not exceed eur 30 million. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which recommends that member states can mobilise the eu solidarity fund - up to €50 million - to pay advances in the event of disasters (natural or otherwise) occurring in 2016. this will enable member states to have a quick and efficient cash-out.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was to facilitate the allocation of the eu emergency solidarity fund to respond more effectively to natural disasters. by speeding up the disbursement of funds to provide support at the most critical moment, i.e. as soon as possible after the disaster, this report is moving in the right direction. any measure that allows the victims and the most deprived of europeans to receive aid as quickly as possible deserves support. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it provides for faster disbursement to countries affected by disasters.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund is designed to enable member states to receive financial support when faced with an emergency situation caused by large-scale or regional natural disasters. the proposal envisages the entry in the 2016 budget of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations with the aim of paying the specified amount to the applicant states in advance, thus accelerating the efficiency and speed of the action. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr lefteris christoforou, on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the purpose of advance payments under the 2016 budget. the aim of this text is to mobilise eur 50 million to provide member states with disaster advances in 2016 and thus better help victims. this will allow for a rapid and efficient disbursement of the european union solidarity fund. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to enter in the general budget of the union for 2016 the amount of eur 50 million in commitment appropriations. this will speed up the disbursement of aid to the affected countries by granting an advance before the final allocation decision is taken, thus enhancing the efficiency of the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund is designed to enable member states to receive financial support when faced with an emergency caused by a large-scale natural disaster or a regional disaster. the proposal envisages the entry in the 2016 budget of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to pay in advance to the requesting member states in the event of natural disasters, thereby speeding up the efficiency and timeliness of disbursements. this provision ensures timely availability of budgetary resources and allows for rapid disbursement of aid to affected countries through the payment of an advance before the final allocation decision has been taken. the advance shall be paid without prejudice to the final decision on the mobilisation of the funds, and unduly paid advances shall be recovered from the member states. as this is a measure to speed up the procedure for granting aid in case of emergency, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this mobilization. this eu solidarity fund provides financial support to member states in the event of large-scale natural disasters or regional disasters. the proposal suggests that €50 million be entered in the 2016 budget to pay in advance to the requesting member states in the event of a disaster, thereby speeding up the efficiency and timeliness of disbursements. as this is a measure to speed up the process of granting funds in case of emergency, it is preferable to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report authorises the release of €50 million from the eu solidarity fund, in the form of advances taken from the 2016 budget. this solidarity fund is intended to help people or regions affected by disasters. moreover, such advances are necessary because the appropriations for the current year are exhausted because of structurally insufficient budgets. using such advances, it is foreseeable that the 2016 budget, still marked by austerity, will also be exhausted well before the end of next year. and so the eu budgetary shipwreck continues, as is now illustrated by all the votes on this subject. i do not want to deprive the victims of disasters of such advances.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund aims to enable member states to receive financial support when faced with an emergency situation caused by large-scale or regional natural disasters. the proposal envisages the entry in the 2016 budget of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations with the aim of paying the specified amount to the applicant states in advance, thus accelerating the efficiency and speed of the action. since this is a measure to speed up the procedure for granting aid in an emergency, i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal envisages to enter in the 2016 budget the sum of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to pay in advance to the requesting member states in the event of natural disasters and thus to speed up the efficiency and timeliness of payments under the eu solidarity fund. this provision, newly introduced by the 2014 amending regulation (article 4a), ensures the timely availability of budgetary resources and allows for a rapid disbursement of aid to affected countries through the payment of an advance (of up to 10% or eur 30 million) before the final allocation decision is taken. the advance shall be paid without prejudice to the final decision on the mobilisation of the funds, and unduly paid advances shall be recovered from the member states. the christoforou report recommends that the amounts proposed by the commission be included in the 2016 budget. as this is a measure to speed up the procedure for granting aid in case of emergency (natural disasters, etc.), i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in the context of the 2016 budget. the text approves the commission's proposal to mobilise the fund for an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to ensure the rapid and efficient disbursement of advances to member states that would suffer disasters in 2016.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which allows the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for the financial year 2016. the eusf is designed to provide assistance to a member state in the event of a major natural disaster, whether national or regional. the aim is to provide an advance of eur 50 million for 2016 so that this envelope is immediately available for a rapid and efficient disbursement in the event of a confirmed disaster, thus allowing the costs to be advanced before the final allocation decision.
in writing. the proposal envisages to enter in the 2016 budget the sum of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to pay in advance to the requesting member states in the event of natural disasters and thus to speed up the efficiency and timeliness of disbursements from the eu solidarity fund. this provision, newly introduced by the 2014 amending regulation (article 4a), ensures the timely availability of budgetary resources and allows for a rapid disbursement of aid to affected countries through the payment of an advance (of up to 10% or eur 30 million) before the final allocation decision is taken. the advance shall be paid without prejudice to the final decision on the mobilisation of the funds, and unduly paid advances shall be recovered from the member states. the christoforou report recommends that the amounts proposed by the commission be included in the 2016 budget. as this is a measure to speed up the procedure for granting aid in case of emergency (natural disasters, etc.), i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the christoforou report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the purpose of payment of advances under the 2016 budget. an amount of eur 50 000 000 shall be made available for the payment of advances by means of appropriations entered in the general budget of the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which once again highlights how flexible the eu budget must be in dealing with crises and their consequences. i voted in favour of this text which approves the decision to mobilise eur 50 million in advance from the 2016 budget for the eu solidarity fund. the fund enables the eu to provide financial support to a member state or region in the event of a major natural disaster. it is important to continue to promote a united and united europe.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund is designed to enable member states to receive financial support when faced with an emergency caused by a large-scale natural disaster or a regional disaster. the proposal envisages the entry in the 2016 budget of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to pay in advance to the requesting member states in the event of natural disasters, thereby speeding up the efficiency and timeliness of disbursements. since this is a measure to speed up the procedure for granting aid in case of emergency (natural disasters, etc.), i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 budget was the subject of a conciliation between the three major eu institutions, the commission, the council and the european parliament. this agreement was put to the vote in parliament. several points in the text are noteworthy: the substantial increase in erasmus funding; the additional funds allocated to farmers in part to compensate for the consequences of the russian embargo; the additional funds for 'multimedia actions'; the strengthening of humanitarian aid; and the additional funds for external action and the migration crisis. the budget provides €2 billion to help member states facing the migration crisis. this is just the beginning. in the coming years, national taxpayers will be increasingly punctuated. does the commission not expect to welcome 3 million more immigrants in the next three years? finally, commitment appropriations amount to eur 155 billion (compared with eur 145.3 billion in 2015) and payment appropriations to eur 143.8 billion (141.2 billion in 2015), which is significantly higher than the 2015 appropriations. france will have to continue with this budget of €23.65 billion, a record. i logically objected.
in writing. ‒ this was a compromise between parliament and the council amending the draft budget for 2016 on the margins. the total appropriations will be higher than in 2015 (155 billion for commitment appropriations compared to 145.3 in 2015 and 143.8 billion for payment appropriations compared to 141.2), to deal with the migration crisis. the increase in salaries of eu civil servants is expected to reach 2.4% in 2016, or 1.5% in real terms. the french contribution to the 2016 eu budget is expected to reach €23.65 billion according to the draft finance bill. i voted against this nonsense, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this joint text of parliament and council on the 2016 budget because it is completely irresponsible, even scandalous. indeed, if i can only approve aid to farmers, i am surprised that it is so paltry - with a package of 500 million plus aid of 197 million following the extension of the russian embargo - compared with the money that will be dedicated to managing the migration crisis, as if welcoming refugees was more important than supporting people already in a precarious situation on our territory: humanitarian aid has thus been increased by 150 million euros, as well as an additional allocation of 34 million euros to turkey, despite the diplomatic ambiguities demonstrated by turkey, particularly in the fight against islamist terrorism. moreover, how can we grant an increase in the salaries of the staff of the european union (+2.4% in 2016), even though brussels has been imposing drastic austerity on the peoples of europe for years, and the staff of the institutions, as a whole, already have many advantages? the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget.
in writing. ‒ the representatives of the european parliament and the council ask us for our approval of the agreement they reached in the conciliation committee on the 2016 budget. it is clear that the commitment appropriations are increased to eur 155 billion compared to 145,3 in 2015, i.e. + 6,7%, and the payment appropriations to eur 143,8 billion compared to 141,2 in 2015, i.e. + 1,8%; these increases are very significant and do not reflect sufficient management effort. it should also be noted that this budget allocates €2 billion to the member states on the front line of the migration crisis, as they have not been able to stem the tide and organise the return of these migrants to their countries of origin. this colossal sum is four times as much as the amount allocated to farmers who suffer from the policies decided by brussels. finally, the salaries of staff in the institutions increased by 2.4%, against an estimated inflation of less than 1%. for all these reasons i am voting against.
in writing. ‒ this report reveals the errors made by the european institutions in the strategic choices they have to make to promote economic growth, employment and the reduction of social inequalities. first, an additional eur 197 million will be given to farmers whose incomes have been reduced because of the stupid decision of the commission to impose an embargo on russia. secondly, an additional €135 million will be allocated to the budget for humanitarian aid to help illegal migrants, even in countries outside the european union such as turkey. finally, the salaries of eu staff are expected to increase by 2.4% in 2016 compared to the 1.2% initially planned, which speaks volumes about the willingness of the eu institutions to rationalize their spending. unlike the member states which are being forced to undergo a painful austerity cure, the european union is not on a budgetary diet which would result in an increase in the contribution of the countries, which will now amount to 23.65 billion euros for france. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2016 budget of the european union. it reflects the position of the european parliament, which has succeeded in making its voice heard at the meetings of the conciliation committee. the priorities of this budget are employment, competitiveness, the management of the refugee crisis and the agricultural crisis. there will be an increase in budgets for youth employment support programmes as well as cosme, horizon 2020 and erasmus+ programmes. an additional eur 500 million will also be mobilised to support dairy farmers affected by the russian embargo. member states will also be helped to cope with the migration crisis. i am particularly sensitive to the funding of the pilot project on the creation of european coastguards which i proposed and which has been taken up by the european commission. the european union needs an ambitious budget to meet the many challenges ahead in 2016.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report sets out the european union's budget for the financial year 2016 and is the result of a compromise agreement between parliament and the council. parliament's negotiators have won back most of the reductions proposed by the council and negotiated more funding for countries at the forefront of migration, for humanitarian aid, the european research and development programme horizon 2020, for initiatives to support youth employment and small and medium-sized enterprises, and the erasmus+ programme for financing professional and student mobility. the agreement provides for €155 billion in commitment appropriations and €143.9 billion in payment appropriations for 2016. considering that the 2016 financial guidelines respond to the priorities for the future, i supported this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the 2016 budgetary procedure, which calls for more funding for humanitarian aid as well as for supporting growth through smes and the european research programmes horizon 2020 and erasmus+.
in writing. ‒ budget 2016 first responds to the challenges facing the european union in the areas of migration, refugee reception and foreign policy. it emphasises growth, innovation and employment, in continuity with previous budgets, and the financial reinforcement of the horizon 2020, erasmus + and cosme programmes, which are moving in the right direction. on these issues, the question is to find the necessary balance between investment and budgetary rigor. the implementation of the investment plan for europe (efsi) is one of the challenges of this parliamentary term. we will be judged on its success.
in writing. ‒ this report on the 2016 budget of the european union highlights some encouraging developments in the management of public money in europe. the aid to migrants will be six times as much as that for farmers, who are directly suffering from the policies of brussels. another example: while france's revenue levies will increase once again to reach €23.65 billion in 2016, at the same time, the european union will increase the salaries of eu staff by 2.4%, while inflation will be only 1%, at a cost of €100 million. this financial problem, which is getting worse every year, cannot go on any longer, so i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it provides for a significant increase in the french contribution to the european budget.
in writing. without budgetary means to match our ambitions, all european policy can only be futile. in the face of the challenges we face (refugee crisis, jobs) i supported the strengthening of our european funding for 2016 in key areas such as education, research and development, as well as support for smes. an additional €800 million will be allocated to the distribution of refugees across the eu, while additional posts can be created at frontex, the european asylum support office and europol. in addition, we wanted to focus on jobs and growth: an additional €31.8 million is earmarked for the horizon 2020 research and development programme; an additional €14.2 million to support smes through cosme; and a further €6.6 million to support young people in education or training under the erasmus+ programme. finally, with my socialist colleagues, we are concerned about the eu's inability to tackle its payment crisis and the accumulation of unpaid invoices. we will need to reframe our budgetary perspectives in the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework in 2016.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft budget of the european union for the year 2016, which was adapted to take account of the agricultural and migration crisis. the european parliament overwhelmingly approved the budget, which totals €155 billion in commitment appropriations and €143.9 billion in payment appropriations. for example, a €500 million package has been mobilised to support dairy farmers and farmers suffering from the impact of the russian embargo. the 2016 budget allocation for managing the migration crisis is eur 2.7 billion and eur 150 million will be allocated to humanitarian aid. let us hope that the funds available will be put to good use.
in writing. ‒ representatives of the european parliament and the council in the budgetary conciliation committee reached an agreement on the 2016 budget. among the points that attract attention are: the substantial increase in erasmus credits; funds allocated to farmers, some of which compensate for the consequences of the russian embargo; funds for multimedia actions; a strengthening of humanitarian aid; or funds for external action in the migration crisis. the budget also provides €2 billion for assistance to member states on the front line of the migration crisis (four times less than the funds allocated to the farmers' crisis). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the number of refugees in the eu is not reduced to a mere 3 million. finally, commitment appropriations amount to eur 155 billion (compared with eur 145.3 billion in 2015) and payment appropriations to eur 143.8 billion (141.2 billion in 2015), which is well above the 2015 appropriations. i voted against, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues josé manuel fernandes and gérard deprez on the 2016 budgetary procedure, a joint project resulting from the conciliation. the 2016 budget is firmly focused on employment and solidarity, as the epp wants, with €155 billion earmarked for these two objectives. parliament has succeeded in reducing council budget cuts and increasing commitment appropriations for the horizon 2020, cosme and erasmus+ programmes which support innovation, enterprises and young people. in addition, eur 500 million will be allocated to help farmers in the dairy sector. budget 2016 also provides for additional means to manage the refugee crisis within the union and outside it to tackle the sources of this crisis. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which perfectly reflects the political priorities raised by the european parliament in 2015 and which must be reflected in the 2016 budget. it was necessary to respond to an exceptional crisis, the migrant crisis, by a significant increase in the european budget. we also need to strengthen competitiveness by creating decent and quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 approved by the conciliation committee, as did a large majority of meps. the total amount of commitment and payment appropriations for 2016 is set at eur 155.004 billion and eur 143.885 billion respectively. we also wanted to introduce a joint declaration to emphasise the monitoring of budget implementation throughout the year. this budget should help member states to cope with the migration crisis affecting our continent, in particular through emergency aid to the states on the front line of the refugee influx.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement on the 2016 budget. in total, this 2016 budget provides €2 billion for support to member states on the front line of the migration crisis. it is shocking to say the least that european leaders are allocating four times more money to managing the migration crisis than to farmers who are suffering from the policies decided by brussels. this is also a very small amount in the face of the flood of migration facing the eu member states. the commission now expects to take in 3 million more migrants than planned. it is equally outrageous that the salaries of eu institutions staff will rise by 2.4% while the inflation forecast in the euro area is less than 1%, all at a cost of €100 million. finally, the revenue levy on france provided for in the 2016 finance bill will rise to a record level of €23.65 billion.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this joint text is the result of negotiations between the european parliament and the council, with a view to their approval. among the shocking findings of this budget, it should be noted that €2 billion is provided to deal with the migration crisis, 4 times more than the amount allocated to help farmers affected by brussels!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fernandes-deprez report, which marks the conclusion of the budgetary conciliation with the council. the extreme weakness of the european budget, which is less than 1% of the union's gdp, is well known. but it is also worth noting that, within this budget itself, the council is reluctant to release payment appropriations (in short, the money actually available for payments by the european administrations and agencies) and only grants authorizations for commitments (permission to start the procedure for a future payment) in sufficient proportions. similarly, while the new 2014-2020 programming provides for various flexibility mechanisms to address the need for safety margins, member states have consistently tried to oppose their use. parliament's negotiators have secured the use of these instruments to meet at least humanitarian and economic emergencies. the aim is to finance the reception of refugees and to provide the investment fund for the juncker plan. these are the reasons for voting in favour, to avoid any unnecessary deadlock. but i am very sorry that a programme like the youth employment initiative, a top priority in europe, has not been refinanced this year by the council.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the compromise position on the 2016 budget negotiated in secret committees by its chairman, martin schulz, as now required by european practice in contradiction with all democratic traditions. apart from a few crumbs, the wishes expressed by parliament in its july and october reports will remain unfulfilled. the negotiations on this new austerity budget reveal major redeployments leading to major cuts in the common agricultural policy, particularly in the lines for improving the treatment of livestock and for more intelligent control of plant pests. farmers and winegrowers who are fighting for the survival of quality agriculture will appreciate it. finally, and most ridiculously, the eu's 2007-2013 series of arrears of payments continues. while they were supposed to be completely absorbed in 2014 and then in 2015, the report dares to say that they will still be 2 billion at the end of 2016! what country or company would accept a payment that is between four and nine years late? no economic and social life is possible with such a european functioning. i am voting against such a bad budget policy.
in writing. ‒ representatives of the european parliament and the council in the budgetary conciliation committee reached an agreement on the 2016 budget; the main points are: the substantial increase in erasmus credits, funds allocated to farmers, some of which compensate for the consequences of the russian embargo, funds for multimedia actions, a strengthening of humanitarian aid and funds for external action in the migration crisis. the budget also provides €2 billion for assistance to member states on the front line of the migration crisis, which is just the beginning as it is expected to welcome 3 million migrants. finally, commitment appropriations amount to eur 155 billion (compared with eur 145.3 billion in 2015) and payment appropriations to eur 143.8 billion (141.2 billion in 2015), which is well above the 2015 appropriations. france will have to contribute to this budget of €23.65 billion, a record. i am voting against this, of course.
in writing. ‒ representatives of the parliament and the council in the budgetary conciliation committee reached an agreement on the 2016 budget for approval by both institutions. the main changes are marginal. the 2016 budget is expected to see its commitment appropriations increase to €155 billion (compared to €145.3 billion in 2015) and payment appropriations to €143.8 billion (compared to €141.2 billion in 2015), well above the 2015 appropriations. this 2016 budget provides €2 billion for support to member states on the front line of the migration crisis. it is shocking to say the least that european leaders are spending four times as much on managing the migration crisis as on farmers, who are suffering from the policies decided by brussels. it is equally outrageous that the salaries of eu staff will increase by 2.4%. finally, the revenue levy (psr-eu) of france provided for in the 2016 finance bill will rise to a record level of €23.65 billion. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the 2016 budget of the european union. although the funds allocated to the iter, galileo, copernicus and egnos programmes have been reduced by €120 million, which i regret, some of the budget cuts were corrected by the european parliament's vote. in particular, i approve the increase in commitment appropriations of around eur 32 million for horizon 2020, eur 14 million for cosme and eur 6.6 million for erasmus+. eur 500 million was also released to support the dairy sector and the agricultural sector more generally, as part of measures to compensate for the loss of income caused by the russian embargo.
in writing. ‒ i was not able to vote for this report, but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report, as it contains particularly important elements to respond to the migration crisis: strengthening of the frontex and europol agencies in particular.
in writing. this report follows the negotiations between the european parliament and the council on the general budget of the union for 2016. i welcome the work of the european parliament, which has made it possible to maintain the budgetary appropriations for the erasmus programme, for the protection of european farmers and for research programmes. the european union's 2016 budget, however, remains anchored in an overall framework of austerity, of budget cuts, which sacrifice some essential programmes such as the youth employment initiative, which will not be renewed. the 2016 budget suffers from a lack of structural flexibility that will not be able to respond to the emergencies of tomorrow, and the management of the migrant and refugee crisis will be particularly affected. for these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. the representatives of parliament and the council in the budgetary conciliation committee reached an agreement on the 2016 budget for approval by both institutions. the main changes are marginal. the 2016 budget is expected to see its commitment appropriations increase to €155 billion (compared to €145.3 billion in 2015) and payment appropriations to €143.8 billion (compared to €141.2 billion in 2015), well above the 2015 appropriations. this 2016 budget provides €2 billion for support to member states on the front line of the migration crisis. it is shocking to say the least that european leaders are spending four times as much on managing the migration crisis as on farmers, who are suffering from the policies decided by brussels. it is equally outrageous that the salaries of eu staff will increase by 2.4%. finally, the revenue levy (psr-eu) of france provided for in the 2016 finance bill will rise to a record level of €23.65 billion. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the negotiations were very quick and efficient and i would like to congratulate him. i note that once again the fight of the anti-corrida groups against european subsidies paid to breeders of fighting bulls has not been successful. the council simply did not take into account the amendments they had put forward. i repeat: the cap does not subsidize bullfighting, it is the states that decide the final direction of the aid. the fight-bull breeders are just other breeders in the eyes of europe.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, which follows a more detailed and faster discussion than in previous years. thanks to the european parliament, the budget does not retain some budget cuts proposed by the council of the member states, in particular in the area of refugee aid and economic development aid, setting a total amount of commitment appropriations of €155 billion. in a context where europe is facing an unprecedented influx of refugees, it is essential to support the trust funds for africa and syria. in economic terms, it is appropriate to give priority to smes with an increase of eur 184.5 million for horizon 2020 funds for innovative smes. in the field of transport in particular, i support the creation of six new posts within the european aviation safety agency to enable it to meet the new tasks assigned to it by the new aviation package. however, i regret that the european railway agency has not seen its number of posts increase, while the scope of its responsibilities has been significantly extended.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the 2016 budget, which raises commitment appropriations to €155 billion and payment appropriations to €143.9 billion. i would also like to stress that it meets all the requirements that parliament had requested and therefore includes an additional eur 1.6 billion compared to the commission's initial proposal. the final budget for 2016 provides for more than €2 billion to respond effectively to the refugee crisis. the external dimension of the refugee crisis has been given greater budgetary capacity. it is our mediterranean neighbours in particular who will be the recipients of european aid, to assist them in managing the migration phenomenon. budget 2016 also focuses on competitiveness and employment issues. as parliament has said, there are plans to increase funding for the horizon 2020 programme, but also for the erasmus+ programme and the youth employment initiative. the budget, which takes account of the agricultural crisis, as parliament had requested, mobilises eur 698 million for the dairy sector and pigmeat producers. budget 2016 will provide an effective response to the challenges we face.
in writing. ‒ after tough negotiations, the european parliament has succeeded in moving the lines of the eu budget in 2016. the council proposed a total reduction of 564 million in commitment appropriations and 1.4 billion in payment appropriations compared with the commission's proposal, but the members of the european parliament stood together and succeeded in reversing this irresponsible position. for employment, we have achieved an increase up to the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework, i.e. eur 189.3 billion. for investment, in addition to the efsi allocation, additional funds will be available for horizon 2020 (+€31.8 million), the european research support programme, erasmus (+€6.6 million) or for smes (+€14.2 million). for assistance to migrants, we exceeded the ceilings of the financial framework by mobilising the flexibility instrument to the tune of eur 1.53 billion. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the youth guarantee fund. but above all, we have reached all the ceilings of the budgetary framework in the third year. it is time to open our eyes to our budgetary need.
in writing. ‒ in total, this 2016 budget provides €2 billion for assistance to member states on the frontline of the migration crisis. it is shocking to say the least that european leaders are allocating four times more money to managing the migration crisis than to farmers who are suffering from the policies decided by brussels. this is also a very small amount in the face of the flood of migration facing the eu member states. the commission now expects to take in 3 million more migrants than planned. it is equally outrageous that the salaries of eu institutions staff will rise by 2.4% while the inflation forecast in the euro area is less than 1%, all at a cost of €100 million. i logically vote against.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the text is to prevent the marketing authorisation of dehp, an endocrine disruptor. this product is present in many everyday items made of recycled pvc. the commission is refusing to make a proposal on endocrine disruptors at the moment. the only levers available to members are therefore objections to delegated and implementing acts. the trade issues are high and the commission shows little interest in the health issue and the citizens. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which opposes the authorisation of the use of phthalate bis, as this substance is dangerous for man and in particular for male fertility.
in writing. ‒ dehp is a dangerous product and there are alternatives to this product. i believe that, on the basis of the information provided, it cannot be used and authorised for the applications in consumer goods. for example, cases of genital malformations have been reported in newborn infants exposed in utero to dehp. in electronics, for example, the product is already banned and there are substitutes. i therefore voted for this report to ban dehp, while deploring the commission's stubborn refusal to make a proposal on endocrine disruptors, and the work in progress gives hope for a proposal by the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this resolution is to prevent the authorisation of dehp, a derivative of phthalate, which has already been identified as an endocrine disruptor and a risk of reproductive toxicity. it is present in many everyday products (products made from recycled pvc, from shoes to windows). a first application for marketing authorization had been unsuccessful, but this time, against all odds, the commission is prepared to grant it. i supported this resolution and therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims to prevent the authorisation of dehp, a derivative of phthalate. this product is already known to be an endocrine disruptor, i.e. a source of physiological and reproductive abnormalities. dehp is present in many everyday products and can easily spread through contact. there are also alternatives identified as reliable. the european commission is prepared to allow it on the market, because, beyond the purely health issues, its prohibition would have trade consequences, particularly with the united states, which does not want new regulations in this area to affect their exports of agricultural products. unlike the commission, whose priority is to preserve good trade relations with the united states, we consider the health of our fellow citizens to be paramount. it turns out that this product has particularly harmful properties. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the commission and the council not to allow the recycling of plastic materials containing the plasticizing additive dehp for the production of pvc for the manufacture of, inter alia, footwear or floor coverings, because of its reproductive toxicity. dehp has been the main phthalate in common use for the last 50 years. it has been classified as a substance of very high concern under the reach regulation and may not be used without the authorisation of the european chemicals agency (echa). the use of dehp is also prohibited in the production of toys, articles for children and cosmetics. the commission has proposed, in a draft decision which requires the council's agreement, to allow the recycling of old dehp-containing plastics for the manufacture of new products. dehp is known to disrupt the endocrine system of mammals, including by lowering the level of testosterone in the foetus. it can affect the rate of development and reproductive ability of the individual. for these reasons i have decided to oppose the commission's draft decision.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this objection. i am against the authorization of this product for which there are safer alternatives. in addition, the european chemicals agency, in its report, was not able to demonstrate the complete safety of this product and the possibility of guaranteeing and controlling its proper use.
in writing. ‒ the objection was to prevent the placing on the market of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate or dehp. while the harmfulness of phthalates has long been established by numerous scientific studies, the commission is again very late on the subject. by not planning a general legislative proposal on the ban of phthalates until 2016, the commission is currently doing nothing to protect consumers from the dangers these chemical compounds pose to citizens' health. the commission has therefore taken all the necessary steps to ban, if nothing else, some of the most harmful phthalates, including dehp. so i voted to ban it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to prevent the marketing of phthalate 2 bis (dehp), a toxic chemical compound suspected of having neuroendocrine effects. phthalate 2bis is already banned in toys and most electrical and electronic appliances, but is still used in many products, including consumer articles containing pvc (plastics, textiles, shoes, etc.). given the existence of safer alternatives to this component, and given that the expertise of the european chemicals agency has not been able to conclude that this product is completely safe for human health, and has not been able to demonstrate the possibility of effectively controlling and regulating its use, i felt that we should not renew the authorisation of this substance.
in writing. ‒ this text prevents the marketing authorisation of dehp, an endocrine disruptor. this product is present in many everyday items made of recycled pvc. the commission still refuses to make a proposal on endocrine disruptors. the only levers available to members are objections to delegated and implementing acts. the commission seems to be disinterested in the health cause and in the citizens. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the objection concerning the authorisation of bisphthalates (dehp). the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 108 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the provisions of article 108 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to the use of bis- ((2-ethylhexyl) phthalate. there are also alternatives to this substance which are less harmful to health, making bis- ((2-ethylhexyl) phthalate useless. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to ban the use of bis-{2-ethylhexyl phthalate), because there are safer alternatives to this product.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the authorisation of the uses of bis-{2-ethylhexyl phthalate, dehp. dehp is a hazardous product, alternatives exist, it may not be authorised for the intended applications in consumer goods. i also supported the amendments recalling the genital malformations suffered by newborns exposed in utero to dehp and stressing that public health should take precedence over recycling objectives.
in writing. - i voted for this opposition. this is an objection procedure which allows a member to oppose an implementing act. the rapporteur is opposed to the authorisation of dehp. this product is a derivative of phthalate, and is found in many everyday objects. it spreads by contact, and is known for its endocrine disrupting properties. the european commission has stubbornly refused to make a proposal on these endocrine disruptors following pressure from the us and the wto. such european regulation would have consequences for world trade and would curb european imports of products from american agriculture. the health of the citizens therefore seems to be secondary to the commission. we are opposed to this attitude.
in writing. ‒ bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) is a substance that increases the flexibility of plastics. its endocrine disrupting activity has been recognised as well as its irreversible effects on development and reproduction. however, the committee for socio-economic analysis concluded that the socio-economic benefits of the uses covered by the application outweigh the risks to human health of those uses and therefore the commission was able to authorise the use of that substance by means of an implementing act. the report before us opposes this decision because of the high toxicity of this substance and the existence of a wide range of substitutes for deh. i vote for this report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the text is to prevent the marketing authorisation of dehp, an endocrine disruptor. this product is present in many everyday items made of recycled pvc. the commission is refusing to make a proposal on endocrine disruptors at the moment. the only levers available to members are therefore objections to delegated and implementing acts. the trade issues are high and the commission shows little interest in the health issue and the citizens. naturally, therefore, the honourable member supports this objection.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to prevent the marketing authorisation of dehp (a derivative of phthalate), which is an endocrine disruptor. the previous application for marketing authorisation was rejected because of the risk of reprotoxicity. the commission is now considering authorising it. however, this product, which is present in many everyday products (especially products made from recycled pvc), is easily transmitted by contact. it is clear that both internal and external pressures (the us and the wto are pushing for the authorisation of this substance in the name of international trade) partly explain the commission's reluctance to make a proposal on endocrine disruptors. the americans also expressed concern about a possible ban on endocrine disruptors in the european union, which would threaten european imports of us agricultural products. in short, public health is being relegated to the background in the name of free trade. i therefore voted in favour of this critical report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which opposes the use of bis-{2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) in the european union. the european chemicals agency has not been able to demonstrate the safety of this toxic product, but it has been shown that it can have harmful effects on the reproductive system. it is therefore appropriate to maintain the prohibition and to give priority to existing alternatives for industrial use.
in writing. the purpose of this report is to prevent the marketing authorisation of dehp (a derivative of phthalate), which is an endocrine disruptor. the previous application for marketing authorisation was rejected because of the risk of reprotoxicity. the commission is now considering authorising it. however, this product, which is present in many everyday products (especially products made from recycled pvc), is easily transmitted by contact. it is clear that both internal and external pressures (the us and the wto are pushing for the authorisation of this substance in the name of international trade) partly explain the commission's reluctance to make a proposal on endocrine disruptors. the americans also expressed concern about a possible ban on endocrine disruptors in the european union, which would threaten european imports of us agricultural products. in short, public health is being relegated to the background in the name of free trade. i therefore voted in favour of this critical report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because i am opposed to the authorisation of this product called dehp. the european authorisation agency was not able to fully demonstrate that this product was not toxic. there are alternatives, though.
in writing. ‒ parliament sent a clear message to the commission by refusing to recycle dehp. because they thought it would be too expensive to use pvc plastic without dehp (phthalate), three companies had asked to be allowed to recycle this plastic even when it contains this dangerous substance. in assessing the application of these companies, the european chemicals agency (echa) clearly highlighted the disastrous effect of dehp on the hormonal system. lecha has shown the irreversible consequences for the foetus and the risk of developing testicular dysgenesis syndrome (malformation of the penis and failure of the testicles to descend into the scrotum, often leading to a decrease in sperm quality) if a pregnant woman is exposed, even for a single day, through her work in a pvc recycling plant containing dehp.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission's proposal to allow three european recycling companies to recycle plastics containing the plasticisers additive called 'dehp' in the production of pvc. dehp has endocrine disrupting properties and there is scientific evidence of adverse effects on human health, resulting in cases of male infertility in exposed workers. furthermore, i would stress that the authorisation of the substance is based on the assessment of the socioeconomic benefits without providing an assessment of the impact on the health of workers, nor a full analysis of alternative solutions available on the market. finally, the argument of promoting recycling does not justify the use of hazardous substances and it would be unacceptable to tolerate such a risk of infertility for the sole reason of economic advantage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this objection. in voting for this text, we are opposing the authorization of the use of bis-{2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp), which is highly toxic and for which there are certain safer alternatives for health. the european chemicals agency has not been able to demonstrate in its report that this product is completely safe and that it is possible to guarantee and control its proper use.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims to prevent the authorisation of dehp, a derivative of phthalate. this is an objection under article 106 of the implementing regulation. this product is already identified for its endocrine disrupting properties, its risk of reproductive toxicity. it had not crossed the caudine forks of the marketing authorisation in a previous application. this time, against all odds, the commission is prepared to allow it. this product is present in many everyday products, especially products made from recycled pvc, from shoes to windows. this product may be easily spread by contact. there are also alternatives identified as reliable. the commission is stubbornly refusing to make a proposal on endocrine disruptors, and the work in progress suggests that a proposal will be available by the end of 2016. the only levers at the disposal of members are therefore objections to delegated acts and implementing acts. the commercial stakes are very high. the eu has already been 'warned' by the us and the wto that regulations on endocrine disruptors would be bad for world trade. it should be noted that public health is only a very secondary issue in these exchanges. i therefore support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rejected by a very large majority (603 votes in favour, 86 against) the request to specially authorise the recycling of 'pvc plastics containing dehp', a chemical belonging to the group of phthalates used to make plastic more flexible. this substance is an endocrine disruptor that disrupts the human reproductive system. considered dangerous, it has been gradually withdrawn from the european market since 2014, but can be used on the basis of a specific authorisation. the commission wanted to allow its recycling for seven years on the grounds that phthalate-free plastics would be too expensive, while the european chemicals agency (echa), which has assessed applications from companies, has highlighted the disastrous consequences of this substance on the hormonal system. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of dehp in all other products. i voted in favour of this resolution of the european parliament which puts human health before economic competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ the taxe committee has issued its final report on tax write-offs and other aggressive tax optimisation measures in the european union. his work, following luxleaks, has more generally made people aware of the schemes of certain unscrupulous multinationals that allow them to escape almost all taxes. the damage to the public finances of the member states is considerable: 10 to 15 billion euros a year for france, for example. since most of these installations are illegal, new forms of regulation must be found. the text makes recommendations to the member states and the commission on the implementation of transparency measures and the limitation of the possibilities for rescripts and other similar measures affecting tax competition, where they prove to be unfair. the final report is a statement of the awareness of the situation, but it does not prejudge the measures to be taken. on the exchange of rescripts directive, a corollary of the work of taxe, the council's position of 6 october last was disappointing. i therefore voted in favour, despite some reservations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to combat tax evasion. i am in favour of the principle that multinational companies should pay their taxes where they make their profits. i believe that at the moment, corporate tax competition which encourages aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance without any common framework is harmful. apart from the loss of public revenue, i consider it unfair that large companies pay very little tax on their profits while citizens and smes have to pay the full price.
in writing. ‒ this report, following the luxleaks scandal, has raised awareness of the schemes of certain unscrupulous multinationals that allow them to evade almost all taxes. the damage is estimated at up to €15 billion per year in france alone. the mandate of the taxe committee will be extended for six months to allow access to certain confidential documents, but we have to decide today on the final report, which i am in favour of. this text makes recommendations to the member states and the commission, in particular on transparency and limiting the possibilities for tax optimisation. examples include luxembourg tax rescripts, the parent/subsidiary regime and the taxation of patent income in the netherlands, and the irish is rate. i support this text in general, particularly in terms of sanctions against multinational companies that practice this fraud. i also support increased protection for whistleblowers. i also think that better cooperation between states is a step in the right direction. but i do not support european harmonisation of the rates of the isd because i remain committed to the sovereignty of the states in tax matters.
in writing. ‒ if we agree with the finding in this report that there are: - many flaws in the tax systems of european countries which allow multinationals to successfully engage in tax optimisation; - too many tax write-offs; - too many disparities between member states; we cannot accept some of its recommendations, particularly on the harmonisation of isf rates, even though we support the oecd recommendations on this matter, sanctions against multinationals that have committed fraud and whistleblowers. we remain in favour of the principle of unanimity in tax matters and look favourably on the encouragement of cooperation between neighbouring states in tax matters, as advocated in this text. for all these reasons i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to combat the tax optimisation practices of large multinationals in order to massively reduce the taxes they have to pay. the shortcomings in national legislation, which are exploited by the large groups without scruple, create a financial damage for the member states which, in the case of france, amounts to more than 10 billion euros per year. the report calls on the member states to strengthen their cooperation in the exchange of data in order to detect more quickly the companies that are engaged in these irregular tax arrangements. it is also recommended that member states introduce transparency measures and limit the possibilities for rewrites. the report also provides for the harmonization of the corporate tax base in order to concentrate competition on rates and to better regulate transfer prices between subsidiaries of the same company. we approve almost all the measures outlined in this report, even if we consider that the project is still not ambitious. on the other hand, we are formally opposed to the harmonization of the sdr rate, which limits the budgetary levers of the member states in the context of a short-term policy. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of the special committee taxe which had been set up following the revelations of the luxleaks scandal. the aim of this committee was to highlight and provide solutions to unrestrained and unfair competition between member states in the tax field. the report calls for greater fiscal convergence between the eu member states and greater transparency. unfair tax competition between member states too often benefits large multinational companies at the expense of smes and european citizens. in this sense, it is essential that companies pay their taxes in the country where they carry out their economic activity. i consider this report to be a vital step towards the necessary tax harmonization within the european union.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's recommendations to strengthen the fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. following the luxleaks scandal at the end of 2014, which revealed the existence of controversial tax practices in some member states, the european parliament responded to citizens' questions by setting up a special temporary committee on taxation in february 2015 (the taxe committee). the report suggests that it is unfair that large companies pay very little tax on their profits while small and medium-sized enterprises and citizens pay the full price, and suggests requiring multinationals to report on country-by-country financial data and introducing a common consolidated corporate tax base. parliament also called for more transparency in the tax agreements between member states and these companies. i support these objectives and consider that the work of this committee has helped to speed up the debate on the fight against tax evasion, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. in the face of the economic and fiscal crisis that has been shaking europe for several years, it is important that the eu commits itself to the establishment of a european tax system that does not favour one country at the expense of another. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which will make it possible to ask multinationals to pay their taxes where they make their profits.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks scandal, the european parliament set up a special committee to investigate corporate tax evasion and fraud in the european union. a serious and exhaustive survey of the methods used by multinationals was carried out and several recommendations were made to combat these practices which are contrary to the principle of equality before tax. this is not just a luxembourg issue, but one of many other european countries which have given unusual tax advantages to certain entities or even to certain states, leading to undesirable distortions of tax competition. one possible answer is fiscal harmonisation within the euro area.
in writing. ‒ following the revelations of the luxleaks scandal, a special committee was set up in the european parliament: the taxe committee. i voted for his final report on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. the text supports the establishment of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). this means that companies will have to pay taxes in proportion to their profits in all the european countries where they operate. in addition, in view of our historical positions and the expectations of european citizens, i voted in favour of extending the commission's investigations into state aid and transfer pricing for the companies mentioned in the luxleaks. i am also in favour of introducing a country-by-country reporting mechanism for multinationals, like the oecd and the french national assembly. finally, i think it's essential to protect whistleblowers.
in writing. ‒ i supported in plenary the interim report presented by the taxe committee on ways to combat tax optimisation practices brought to light by the luxleaks scandal. this text is far from perfect, but it has the advantage of maintaining pressure, including in the media, on multinationals (who have refused to be heard) and on states that engage in large-scale tax evasion operations and rely on the rules of "free and undistorted" competition, of which they are the champions. the report also raises the right questions on transparency, the role and protection of whistleblowers, and the separation of public and private advisory activities. it outlines solutions for the distribution of the common consolidated corporate tax base, part of the revenue of which could be returned to the eu budget as an own resource. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because it does not take sufficient account of the establishment of transparency measures.
in writing. this report is the result of the work of the taxe committee which, after nine months, has made a number of very interesting proposals. i therefore voted in favour of it and hope that its recommendations will be implemented as soon as possible. the unfair tax competition that is currently practised in europe is aberrant in many respects. the unanimity rule which applies to these questions is quite harmful. it allows a few countries to benefit at the expense of the majority. it is particularly useful for multinational companies to reduce their taxes in a scandalous way. in view of this situation, the taxe committee recommends, in particular, the implementation of the accis common consolidated corporate tax base which would make it possible to have a common system for calculating the corporate tax base. the publication of country-by-country information (cbcr) is intended to oblige listed companies to make public information on their activities and the taxes they pay in all the countries in which they are established. the automatic exchange of information, the drawing up of lists of tax havens and the protection of whistleblowers are also mentioned.
in writing. ‒ the final report of the taxe committee on tax rescripts and other aggressive tax optimisation measures in the eu, following the luxleaks scandal, has more generally raised awareness of the arrangements of some multinationals allowing them to escape almost all tax. the damage to the public finances of the member states would be heavy, in the order of 10 to 15 billion euros a year for france, for example. since most of these installations are illegal, new forms of regulation must be found. the text makes recommendations to the member states and the commission on the implementation of transparency measures and the limitation of the possibilities for rescripts and other similar measures affecting tax competition, where they prove to be unfair. the report concludes by raising awareness but does not prejudge the measures to be taken. on the exchange of rescripts directive, a corollary of the work of taxe, the council's position of 6 october last was disappointing. so, with some reservations, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues elisa ferreira and michael theurer on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. this report follows the information work on member states' tax practices towards enterprises. the report stresses the lack of willingness of member states to tackle unfair tax practices and recalls that transparency must be a priority but must not be at the disadvantage of european companies. the need for harmonisation of practices in the member states therefore remains. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to make corporate taxation fairer in europe. it is important that multinationals pay their taxes where they make their profits without tax competition between member states. the report calls on the member states to agree on a common consolidated corporate tax base, on common definitions of tax terms and on greater transparency of tax records.
in writing. ‒ i approved the report presented by the taxe special committee, chaired by my colleague alain lamassoure, which proposes a number of recommendations that are essential to tackle the problem of favourable tax arrangements negotiated between states and companies (tax rulings), which contribute to the erosion of tax bases and damage the state of public finances in the member states. i also voted for paragraph 142 of the report, to ask the commission to propose the creation of a legislative framework to ensure the protection of whistleblowers. i also supported the call on the commission to put in place a number of instruments to ensure that they have this legal and financial security, but i did not approve of the idea of creating specific european bodies which could prove costly. i consider it very important to have a legislative framework that protects whistleblowers while ensuring that 'business secrets' are respected. i also wanted these instruments to be responsive and effective, supporting the idea of a protection mechanism for whistleblowers who would turn to the public if the competent authorities did not react within one month of being informed of the situation.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks scandal, which concerned tax evasion by multinational companies with the complicity of governments and tax administrations in some european countries, parliament set up a special committee on taxation. our concerns about the scope of the mandate, the limitation of the investigation powers and the willingness to use it to exonerate those responsible have been confirmed. the political responsibility of the european union for the fiscal dumping has not been established. the states' part was removed from the final report by amendments from the right. finally, the replies from the commission or certain companies were partial or absent. however, the report before us contains useful proposals and shows the negative impact of austerity on fiscal justice. we therefore wanted to extend the mandate of this committee to shed light on these practices. but that has embarrassed conservative, socialist and liberal groups. everything was done to close the committee after the adoption of its first report. i therefore abstained because i refuse to be associated with a manoeuvre to bury a case as fundamental as tax justice and i support the continuation of the investigative work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on tax write-offs and other aggressive tax optimisation measures in the union. the work of the taxe committee, following the luxleaks case, has more generally made people aware of the schemes of certain unscrupulous multinationals which allow them to evade almost all taxation by exploiting loopholes in the legislation of the member states or taking advantage of their differences. the damage to the public finances of the member states is heavy, and is estimated to be in the order of eur 10 to 15 billion a year for france.
in writing. - i voted for it. this was the report of the taxe committee, a special parliamentary committee, which wanted to hear the multinationals in the wake of the luxleaks scandal. the committee has become aware of the actions of unscrupulous multinationals which exploit legal loopholes in the legislative system of the member states and thus manage to avoid almost all taxation. as the hearings were held late, it was suggested that the mandate of this committee be extended for another 6 months. the commission's report suggests sanctions against multinational companies and their boards guilty of fraud, proposes a revision of the tax code of conduct and calls for stronger protection for whistleblowers. on the other hand, we remain firmly opposed to the proposal to harmonize the rates of direct taxes. nevertheless, this report shows a sense of awareness and is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of the report of the taxe special committee, the european parliament is not completing a cycle, but must instead open a new stage of voluntarism for tax justice. the inequality of firms in taxation and unfair competition between states have been outside the priorities of the european union for too long. the text lays out real plans to combat these practices and simplify taxation in europe. the cacis, this common consolidated tax base, is the main weapon against tax avoidance schemes. the text also reaffirms the european parliament's firm position on transparency: the states' records must be exchanged while they are still valid and the commission must have access to them; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to publish a list of all the countries in which they have their head offices. the eu institutions now have the opportunity and the duty to continue their work along the path opened by the taxe committee. the council, above all, has the responsibility to give legal force to the proposals we make. i have been involved in the work of the committee from the outset and voted with enthusiasm and hope for this report.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleak case, concerning the revelations of tax fraud by luxembourg, a special commission was set up. the report before us is the result of his work. the report 'highlights the growing gap between statutory and effective tax rates, particularly for companies operating globally' and calls 'for the automatic exchange of information to apply to all rescripts issued by or on behalf of the government or tax administration of a member state or its territorial or administrative entities'. but beyond the fine promises, i note that mr juncker's actual role in setting up these tax write-down mechanisms is largely ignored in the report, despite very vague responses at his hearing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. i therefore abstain on this report and ask for the taxe special committee to be requalified as a committee of inquiry or at least for the special committee's mandate to be extended so that it can continue its work.
in writing. ‒ the taxe committee has issued its final report on tax write-offs and other aggressive tax optimisation measures in the eu. his work, following the luxleaks case, has more generally raised awareness of the schemes of certain unscrupulous multinationals allowing them to escape almost any tax. the damage to the public finances of the member states would be heavy, in the order of 10 to 15 billion euros a year for france, for example. since most of these installations are illegal, new forms of regulation must be found. the text makes recommendations to the member states and the commission on the implementation of transparency measures and the limitation of the possibilities for rescripts and other similar measures affecting tax competition, where they prove to be unfair. the report concludes by raising awareness but does not prejudge the measures to be taken. on the exchange of rescripts directive, a corollary of the work of taxe, the council's position of 6 october last was disappointing. i therefore vote in favour, despite some reservations.
in writing. ‒ the fn voted in favour of this own-initiative report, not to give a blank check to the union's action in tax matters, but to signal a desire to put an end to the aggressive tax optimisation practiced with impunity by certain multinationals that take advantage of the complacency of certain european states, to the detriment of the public finances of other states such as france (estimated loss of revenue: 15 billion euros per year). the taxe special committee has had to face the ill will of the european commission, whose president juncker is the main responsible for the luxleaks scandal, of certain states and of multinational companies which have often evaded questions and requests for documents. european countries must move towards greater cooperation. the implementation of the oecd measures against beps (excise, transfer price controls, etc.) should therefore be welcomed in order to relocate the tax where the profits are generated. however, the legitimate fight against aggressive optimisation cannot be the means of imposing a fiscal union, which would put an end to the principle of unanimity in this field and would remove part of the sovereignty of the states.
in writing. ‒ this report follows the establishment of the taxe committee on tax remissions and other aggressive tax optimisation measures in the eu following the luxleaks scandal, which revealed the unscrupulous behaviour of multinationals abusing tax optimisation through accounting fraud to avoid tax, with the complicity of the luxembourg authorities (primarily the current president of the european commission). in total, almost €10-15 billion a year of tax revenue for france has been lost. the text recommends the adoption of transparency measures (publication of country-by-country information) and the limitation of the possibilities of rewrites, or the adoption of a common tax base (accis) to concentrate tax competition on rates. it broadly follows the oecd proposals on beps. while some of the recommendations (consolidated common base) are to be criticised as a further step towards the europeanisation of tax policies (to the detriment of the bilateral nature of the conventions), this report should be seen more as a wake-up call. in these circumstances, i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by the special committee on tax rulings which aims to oblige companies to pay their fair share of taxes in the countries where they make profits. the text recommends, in particular, the establishment of a common consolidated corporate tax base at european level in order to put an end to unfair tax competition between member states, which allows multinational companies in particular to avoid taxation. i strongly support this measure because it will help to combat effectively large-scale tax evasion, which is intolerable to taxpayers who are having difficulty paying their own taxes.
in writing. this report follows the establishment of the taxe committee on tax remissions and other aggressive tax optimisation measures in the eu following the luxleaks scandal, which revealed the unscrupulous behaviour of multinationals abusing tax optimisation through accounting arrangements to avoid tax, with the complicity of the luxembourg authorities (primarily the current president of the european commission). in total, almost €10-15 billion a year of tax revenue for france has been lost. the text recommends the adoption of transparency measures (publication of country-by-country information) and the limitation of the possibilities of rewrites, or the adoption of a common tax base (accis) to concentrate tax competition on rates. it broadly follows the oecd proposals on beps. while some of the recommendations (consolidated common base) are to be criticised as a further step towards the europeanisation of tax policies (to the detriment of the bilateral nature of the conventions), this report should be seen more as a wake-up call. in these circumstances, i have decided to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ferreira/theurer report by the taxe special committee chaired by alain lamassoure, following its work on tax rulings and harmful administrative tax practices in corporate taxation in europe. this special committee was launched after the luxleaks scandal. it was time for europe to replace the inaction of the member states. concrete action will have to follow the ambitious objectives set by this parliamentary committee. the sums involved are so enormous that, if they were to be transferred to the member states' budgets, they could make it possible to contribute to the recovery policies that are in line with our ambitions.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which was adopted by the taxe committee, a special committee which was set up last february in the wake of the luxleaks scandal. after nine months of work, the report makes a number of recommendations on taxation, in particular to respond to the over-bidding by certain states regarding the tax advantages offered to multinationals. tax competition must no longer be conducted in an opaque and unfair manner. the report recommends the speedy introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) at european level, which would put an end to preferential schemes. it also calls on member states to systematically share their tax returns and other tax information which has implications for other member states. finally, it should also be noted that the report calls on the commission to make a legislative proposal on the protection of whistleblowers.
in writing. ‒ the luxleaks scandal, which broke almost a year ago, shows that multinationals benefit from tax breaks that hinder the financing of public power and break tax equality. the european parliament has been mobilized. we are in favour of the creation of a country-by-country accounting reporting obligation for multinationals. we also propose the creation of a 'consolidated common base' so that taxation criteria are harmonised at european level. we demand full transparency of tax returns, i.e. the gifts and rebates given by the member states to airlines, and we demand greater protection for whistleblowers, who have in particular made public the scandal of luxembourg practices. i strongly support this report because it makes real progress in putting an end to tax fraud and tax evasion. this is a great step forward, but we must continue towards a european tax on multinationals, the only instrument capable of putting a definitive end to fiscal dumping in europe. at a time when the european budget is in crisis and is reaching the limits of the multiannual financial framework, these additional resources are essential if we are to meet the challenges we face.
in writing. ‒ on the proposals of the taxe committee, i support the harmonisation of the corporate tax base, in order to focus competition on rates. i also support the obligation to publish information by country and the principle of non-double taxation such as minimum taxation. i support the sanctions against multinational companies that have committed fraud and the revision of the tax code of conduct, a task force which was supposed to identify and eliminate unfair tax practices as early as 1998, and which has been a complete failure. i am also in favour of increased protection for whistleblowers. i am, however, still firmly opposed to harmonizing the rates of direct taxation. i remain committed to the principle of unanimity in tax matters, which guarantees the sovereignty of states. the report concludes by raising awareness but does not prejudge the measures to be taken. i therefore choose to vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks revelations, the european parliament set up a special committee to investigate tax evasion by multinationals. while i can only welcome the fact that these practices are finally being investigated, the conclusions are not really up to the challenge, despite a number of positive elements: recognition of the responsibility of several countries in setting up aggressive tax regimes that promote these practices, recognition of the need to make multinationals pay their taxes where they make their profits and to do this, the publication of corporate tax data. unsurprisingly, this investigation has met with resistance from the main players. the specific responsibilities of certain politicians, such as mr juncker and mr dijsselbloem, are obviously hidden. nor is there any mention of the fact that several member states and multinational companies have refused to comply with the commission's requests. the epp and s&d have done everything to bring the special committee to an end. the green group and the gue/ngl group finally reached agreement on the setting up of a new committee of inquiry, but its powers will be reduced. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ a few passages from this report will suffice to explain our opposition to this report. the report also stresses that the eu must continue to play a leading role in the fight against terrorism and the fight against terrorism. 'terrorism cannot and should not be associated with any religion, nationality or civilization'; it proposes 'to use tutors or advisory assistants in the de-radicalisation process of union citizens returning from combat zones who are disappointed with their experiences, in order to support them in their reintegration into society through appropriate programmes'. "europe's diversity and its multicultural communities are an integral part of its social fabric and an essential asset". with proposals like this, the citizens of the member states of the european union can rest assured that the fight against terrorism is not being taken lightly in brussels! it should also be noted that this report is in favour of the introduction of the pnr, a liberticidal and ineffective procedure to which we are opposed. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the attacks in paris have once again underlined the urgent need for coordinated action by the member states and the european union to prevent radicalisation and to combat terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report by mrs rachida dati on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations, because, although insufficient, this report by my country's former minister of justice is a step in the right direction and can be a tool in the fight against the terrorist threat to the member states of the european union. there is therefore no need to dwell on certain details and paragraphs of this text which show too much leniency in the face of the islamist threat or even blindness to the true nature of this threat. i regret, among other things, that this report does not dare to point the finger at the risk to our society of the arrival of too many migrants; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. the report does, however, highlight many weaknesses in the current policy on this matter, and i welcome this.
in writing. ‒ this report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations is a politically correct, community and european report. it is a catalogue of good feelings, but it is time to realize that the european union cannot change anything in this matter as long as we do not call schengen, free movement into question and continue to open our borders wide. the report refuses to associate terrorism with any religion, nationality or civilization, thus denying the problem of mass immigration into europe, which is no longer able to integrate and assimilate and which some terrorists take advantage of to pass as refugees. in the name of a european humanism, we should welcome all communities and live together on a daily basis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. it is proved that this measure is of no use since the terrorists now have many other means of circulation, facilitated by this europe of the pastry. this pnr will only be used for another registration of citizens with no security effect. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations is a politically correct, community and european report. it does not call into question schengen or the absence of frontiers. the report stresses that terrorism cannot be associated with any religion, nationality or civilization. it also stresses that europe's diversity with its multicultural communities is an integral part of its social fabric. for all these reasons, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report was intended to prevent the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations. it is clear that this politically correct, community- and european-oriented text does not tackle the roots of the problem, which are the free movement of individuals within the schengen area and the lack of resources for the intelligence services. the confusion would be precisely in not identifying the enemy we are facing, namely islamic fundamentalism, the real scourge of this 21st century. the european union's passenger name record (pnr) directive, which will mean checking all air passengers in europe, will not eradicate this threat, particularly because terrorists do not always use this mode of transport. it is essential that national governments focus first on individuals at risk and exchange data on those suspected of belonging to the jihadist movement. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. the report calls for greater cooperation between member states, particularly in the exchange of information on persons under surveillance. he said that radicalisation must also be tackled where it is most present, in prisons. we need to separate radicalized prisoners from other prisoners so that they can't indoctrinate other prisoners. education must be the basis of the fight against radicalisation. in this, internet search operators have a responsibility when they leave videos that promote terrorism within reach of everyone. we need to penalize these operators. i hope that these measures taken by parliament will be the subject of a european strategy against radicalisation as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes to define a joint european strategy to combat extremism and the recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations, with a focus on education and social inclusion. the report focuses on online and prison recruitment. the proposed measures include confiscation of passports, control of returns to the eu of citizens who may have been radicalised, and the establishment of a blacklist of european jihadists and suspected jihadist terrorists. the report also recommends separating radicalised prisoners, strengthening intercultural dialogue and establishing support systems such as telephone lines. finally, member states are called upon to strengthen cooperation and the rapid exchange of information between national law enforcement agencies and europol, in order to detect and monitor suspected terrorists and potential 'foreign fighters'. considering that one of the major challenges of terrorism, as the attacks of 13 november in paris have shown, is indeed radicalisation on european soil, i voted in favour of this report, which makes strong and necessary proposals.
in writing. the very large majority vote on my report on preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations is a testament to the european parliament's unity, across political divides, in the fight against barbarism and terrorism. it is a strong appeal to the european commission and the member states to put the measures we are proposing into effect quickly. the criminal liability of the internet giants, measures to prevent radicalisation in prisons, the european pnr, the introduction of systematic checks at the external borders of the european union, the establishment of a european tfts: all these measures must be taken as soon as possible. it's more than a duty, it's an obligation. the security of european citizens is at stake. let's live up to our responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the dati report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations. two weeks after the paris attacks, the vote on this report has a special resonance: european cooperation must be a political obligation and duty. the resolution should make it possible to establish criminal liability for the major internet companies, systematic checks at the external borders of the european union, a curb on radicalisation in prisons and the cessation of foreign terrorist financing, but above all the establishment of a european pnr (european passenger data). this essential measure is being delayed because of the blockade by the socialist members. with the adoption of this report, the european parliament is facing up to its responsibilities in the fight against terrorism. it is now up to the european commission and the council to do the same by implementing these measures!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this very timely report after it had been thoroughly revised by my s&d colleagues in the libe committee to include in the strategy for preventing and combating violent extremism coercive measures such as the strengthening of the exchange of information and experience between member states, particularly at police and judicial level, but also instruments relating to mediation, social inclusion and the fight against discrimination, for example through citizenship education, voluntary association work and support for the work of street educators. the final version of the report also ensures that refugees and migrants are not stigmatised, and that they are not in any way treated as terrorists. finally, the report again highlights the fundamental issue of the commitment of internet companies to do more to detect and remove hate messages and calls for murder. radicalisation affects all social circles and the internet is the main vehicle.
in writing. ‒ this report is a real hymn to european and community-oriented political correctness. while it claims to prevent citizens of european origin from turning to terrorism, it does not identify the real causes, nor does it name them. islamic fundamentalism is not an sui generis entity, without attachment, without origin or foundation. the majority of them come from our suburbs and the islamic communitarianism that prevails there cannot be fought by living together and declarations of intent that dissociate them totally from islam and its fundamentalist drift. i cannot endorse a report that does not identify the true ins and outs of terrorism that kills hundreds of our fellow citizens. i therefore voted against this dati report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not focus on the real terrorism, the terrorism of radical islam.
in writing. ‒ the paris attacks demonstrate more than ever that preventing radicalisation is essential to combating terrorism. the vast majority of the perpetrators of these acts were born and lived in europe: in france or in our neighbours. the european added value in preventing radicalisation is therefore undeniable: methods that work well in one european country must be able to be shared with others, or information on european combatants going to or returning from syria must be able to be shared more widely between states. that is why i voted in favour of this report from parliament which calls for the implementation of a european action plan to prevent radicalisation. while the original text was overly focused on repression, we have succeeded in enriching it to make it more balanced and to emphasise the need to respect fundamental freedoms. our influence has been instrumental in recalling the importance of education and policies of inclusion and non-discrimination in preventing radicalisation and in avoiding conflation between religion and terrorism. the commission is now in the driver's seat.
in writing. ‒ the terrorist attacks in recent weeks in france, lebanon, mali and tunisia provide crucial lessons on the determination, structure and organisation of jihadist terrorists. these murderers do not care about national borders and are happy to insult our principles and values. the example of abdelhamid abaaoud's entry and exit into the schengen area, despite having a european arrest warrant, reveals how the lack of communication and disunity of european states is a danger to citizens. we must end the debate and take the measures that have come too late to fight the islamic state and its "god-crazy" followers. operationauy, we need the european pnr including intra-european journeys. this is a priority. we also need to strengthen the capacities of frontex and europol and facilitate access to cross-sectoral databases of security, customs and intelligence services. finally, i welcome rachida dati's proposals on the prevention of radicalisation in prisons and on the internet (empowerment of internet operators, public awareness in schools and healthcare, the segregation of individuals radicalised in prisons, training of imams, etc.).
in writing. ‒ this text is unacceptable for several reasons, including: 'terrorism and radicalisation lead to many amalgams towards religions, which in turn lead to an increase in crimes and hate speech motivated by racism, xenophobia or intolerance (...) ', 'terrorism cannot and must not be associated with any religion, nationality or civilization', 'proposes to use tutors or assistant advisers in the process of deradicalization of union citizens returning from combat zones who are disappointed with the experience they have had, in order to support them in their reintegration into society through appropriate programmes', 'the diversity of europe and its multicultural communities are an integral part of its social fabric and constitute an essential asset'. it should also be noted that this report is in favour of the introduction of the pnr, a liberticidal and ineffective procedure to which we are opposed. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms rachida dati, on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. the attacks of 13 november have unfortunately once again demonstrated the need to respond effectively to the problem of radicalisation. this will be achieved through better monitoring and treatment of individuals at risk in prison, through a better policy on prevention and deradicalisation and through the introduction of effective controls at the external borders of the schengen area. finally, the text calls for the rapid establishment of the pnr file, which has been irresponsibly obstructed by the left until now. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ as european cooperation is more necessary than ever in the face of the threat posed by islamist terrorism, i endorsed the report by my colleague rachida dati on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations. in addition to the establishment of the european national identity number (supported by meps from the epp group, but long blocked by a heterogeneous coalition of french socialist meps and national front mps), the prevention of radicalisation in prison through, in particular, the training of religious representatives and leaders, and systematic checks at the external borders of the union, this own-initiative report also recommends a number of measures which we believe are likely to curb the financing of terrorism. we call for the compulsion of associations to disclose their foreign funding, and for the criminal prosecution of internet giants who spread speeches promoting terrorism. in fact, as the internet is one of the main vectors of islamist radicalisation, and especially among young people, i believe it is urgent to hold the internet giants accountable for the risks involved in the dissemination of such hate speech.
in writing. ‒ rachida dati's report on the prevention of radicalism is of terrible relevance, following the attacks in paris and saint-denis. the text calls for common procedures to be put in place, such as confiscation of the passports of europeans wishing to travel to conflict zones or judicial control on the return of any european citizen who has gone to fight abroad, with, if necessary, administrative detention pending future criminal prosecution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. educational and social inclusion work by states is recommended to prevent radicalisation behaviour. the coordination and cooperation of intelligence agencies and national security services is strongly encouraged, in particular through european information systems such as the schengen system, the future pnr, and the european agencies. i do not entirely approve of these measures. i have nevertheless supported this text because it is necessary to stand together and above all to support any initiative promoting european coordination, which we have sorely lacked.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations for several reasons. firstly, this report relativises the role of islamic fundamentalism in the problems we face. how can you expect to win a fight when you don 't even have the courage to point out the enemy ? paragraph 1, for example, emphasizes that terrorism cannot and must not be associated with any religion, nationality or civilization. other the report advocates solutions based on community and european principles. he is in favour of the introduction of the pnr, a liberticidal and inefficient system which is part of the logic of mass surveillance. every citizen of the member states is therefore considered a potential terrorist, whereas a targeted approach to groups at risk would be much more effective.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it lacks courage in not daring to denounce the specific nature of islamist radicalisation. on the contrary, he relativises it as just one form of radicalisation among others. it's indecent when you know that 130 people were just massacred in paris by islamists.
in writing. ‒ this text, whose rapporteur was none other than rachida dati, is a mixture of political correctness, communitarianism and europeanism. it is not a question of the schengen area and its open borders, which it avoids by remaining in the common areas and avoiding sometimes obvious truths. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. like almost the majority of our group, i voted against this report.
in writing. - dominique martin voted against the text. our group, the enf group, has tabled a number of amendments to this text in an attempt to put it back on the right track. as we expected, none of them passed. we are therefore faced with a caricatured text of political correctness, communitarianism and europeanism. the uselessness, or worse, the danger of this text is so blatant that we prefer to oppose it.
in writing. ‒ the terrible events that have affected our country have highlighted the urgent need for the european union to combat in a preventive manner the radicalisation of a growing number of european citizens (an estimated 5 000 of whom have joined organisations such as daesh). it is therefore essential to address the multiple and complex causes that lead some european citizens to become radicalised, by providing comprehensive and appropriate responses. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. i share his ambition to fight the return of foreign fighters, while pursuing a prevention strategy that simultaneously focuses on schools, prisons, and the internet. i also supported an amendment which proposes to make internet service providers criminally liable if they refuse, following a court order, to remove messages promoting terrorism. i voted in favour of this report, which, in the face of terrorism, offers strong guarantees of respect for the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ this report exploits the emotion of the terrible attacks in paris. the right and the social democrats are trying to get us to adopt the directive on the exchange of passenger name records (pnr) which has been rejected for several years. this prepares an all-round cross-section of the personal data of the entire population, with no effectiveness against terrorist threats. the report unfortunately links the flow of migrants to terrorism, when the only "foreigner" in the paris attacks was belgium. worse, between imams and radicalization of prisoners. ms dati acknowledges her government's mistakes on "prison overcrowding", even though she has actively supported budget cuts in the judiciary. it recognises the crucial role of teachers, who are nevertheless called upon to play policeman in identifying potential terrorists. i note that, finally, the need is emphasized to combat the financing of daesh through the gulf countries which support terrorism. i am voting against this report and its amendments in the haste of exploiting emotion to pass a repressive arsenal with no proven effectiveness in the face of the threat we face.
in writing. ‒ this long-awaited report was hopeful, but it turns out to be very disappointing. in fact, despite the current climate, this text still shows an angelism towards radical islamism by advocating the establishment of socio-educational processes. for example, the report proposes to 'use tutors or advisory assistants in the process of deradicalization of eu citizens returning from combat zones who are disappointed with their experience, in order to support them in their reintegration into society'. the national front considers these measures very dangerous for our society. he also opposed the pnr, a liberticidal and ineffective project. the member is therefore voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ this dati report shows an unprecedented level of angelicism and political correctness. it is promoting ever more communitarianism and europeanism in order to combat terrorism without calling into question schengen and the total opening of frontiers. the dogmas remain despite the gravity of the situation. it follows the catholic catechism in stating that terrorism "cannot and must not be associated with any religion, nationality or civilization", or that "the diversity of europe and its multicultural communities are an integral part of its social fabric" while it is clear that multiculturalism leads to multi-conflict societies. moreover, the only response to radicalisation and recruitment by terrorist organisations is the pnr, which only concerns air transport, when the terrorists of the paris attacks took other means (especially the migrant route) to reach france from syria. the europeanist torpor seems unshakable. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ the attacks in paris on 13 november that killed 130 people and injured 350 others, the 17 deaths in january 2015 in paris, and the avoided tragedy in the thalys train in belgium last august, demonstrate the absolute need for the european union and its member states to mobilise urgently against those who seek to destroy our common space of freedom. the text, which aims to combat radicalisation and the recruitment of union citizens by terrorist organisations in a preventive and judicial manner, calls in particular for the detection of the departure and return of terrorists from and to the union by the member states' introduction of systematic and mandatory controls at the union's external borders. i naturally voted for this measure, as well as for the completion of the passenger name record (pnr) directive by the end of 2015. it is important to note that, despite the obvious need for this instrument of combating terrorism, 14 socialists still opposed it, as did the french socialist sylvie guillaume during the vote in committee on 15 july.
in writing. - with the terrorist attacks of 2015, our freedom is targeted. the whole of europe is concerned. i voted in favour of strengthening the security of european citizens and the fight against radicalisation: the passenger name record (pnr - exchange of passenger data which will allow the collection of people's movements and will be a valuable source of information on suspects), the strengthening of systematic checks at the external borders of the european union, the criminal liability of internet giants in the dissemination of images and words promoting the radicalisation of young people and the fight against radicalisation in prisons. it is through the development of intelligence, the strengthening of frontex, and the strong cooperation between the 28 member states that we will effectively combat radicalisation and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i was not able to vote for this report, but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. it provides a very good way of tackling a problem which has become central, particularly in france, but which, in view of the number of departures for syria, affects many european countries. this is an excellent report, but it should not obscure the need to deal with the problem at national level by returning to a genuine integration policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which stresses the urgency of action against the radicalisation of young europeans and their recruitment by terrorist organisations, following the attacks in paris on 13 november 2015.
in writing. this dati report shows an unprecedented degree of angelicism and political correctness. it is promoting ever more communitarianism and europeanism in order to combat terrorism without calling into question schengen and the total opening of frontiers. the dogmas remain despite the gravity of the situation. it follows the catholic catechism in stating that terrorism "cannot and must not be associated with any religion, nationality or civilization", or that "the diversity of europe and its multicultural communities are an integral part of its social fabric" while it is clear that multiculturalism leads to multi-conflict societies. moreover, the only response to radicalisation and recruitment by terrorist organisations is the pnr, which only concerns air transport, when the terrorists of the paris attacks took other means (especially the migrant route) to reach france from syria. the europeanist torpor seems unshakable. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ i am glad that parliament has finally spoken on the prevention of radicalisation. it is a long-term effort which my colleague rachida dati has been carrying out for the last 10 months, and i would like to congratulate her on it. we have succeeded in introducing the necessary concepts and instruments. to fight the lies of terrorist networks, let's set up real de-radicalization centers, isolate radicalized individuals in prisons, create digital strike forces to counter propaganda, hold the internet giants accountable for the content they allow to be spread. i would like to stress in particular the pnr, the european personal data file for air passengers, which could serve as a database of dangerous persons. the left blocked it in 2013. the recent tragic events in france have shown us that we were unfortunately right. the case has just been opened, and the negotiations will soon be concluded. we, as republicans, will always remain committed to the fight against radicalization and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the fight against terrorism is a fight that the whole of europe must take up. it is a test that affects us all and calls for greater european solidarity. among the actions to be taken, the question of preventing radicalisation leading to terrorism is of particular importance. let us stop talking about 'foreign' fighters, we are talking about europeans attacking other europeans. the terrorists who carried out these heinous attacks in paris were french or belgian. we must also put an end to the dangerous amalgamations between muslims and terrorists, on the one hand, but also between terrorists and refugees, the latter being the first victims of daesh. the report is a demonstration of the commitment of meps to this fight. even if the text adopted would have been more concise and more targeted, it still produces a balanced package, thanks to the influence of the european socialists. it presents a set of concrete proposals to prevent radicalisation, in particular by addressing the roots of this phenomenon. in prisons, on the internet and on social media, by recalling the fundamental role of the school and by mobilising all the actors involved.
in writing. ‒ the radicalisation of young europeans, who are increasingly tempted by jihad, is helping to strengthen the power of daesh and represents an increasingly worrying threat to the security of european citizens. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations, which proposes solutions at european level, the only relevant one in the face of the internationalisation of terrorism. the text proposes to tackle the main drivers of radicalisation, and more specifically jihadist propaganda sites, by strengthening internet surveillance and disabling recruitment platforms. in addition, prisons are also a breeding ground for such radicalisation and should therefore be the subject of specific measures to separate radicalised prisoners from other prisoners. as regards surveillance inside and outside the schengen area, the establishment of a european blacklist of persons suspected of having been or having been radicalised is recommended in order to promote cooperation and exchange of information between member states.
in writing. ‒ tackling radicalisation is a key priority in the fight against terrorism. we need to strengthen resources and better collaboration with the communities most affected by this phenomenon. the report also stresses that the terrorist threat cannot be linked to the refugee crisis, especially as refugees are fleeing the same threat. the terrorist attacks in paris have also exposed many shortcomings. the intelligence services, the judiciary and the police not only need more staff to function effectively, but their collaboration with the services of other european countries has become an emergency. the joint investigation teams within europol or eurojust must be strengthened and given a substantial budget to improve cooperation. environmentalists point out that mass surveillance (including pnr) is not a guarantee of effectiveness: it would be more relevant to allocate these resources to strengthen the police and security forces so that they can effectively monitor already known suspects.
in writing. ‒ the barbaric acts in paris show the need for determined action to prevent any radicalisation or recruitment of citizens by terrorist organisations. that is why i have approved this text, which proposes key measures in this context. i would like to stress the first of these, namely prevention. this will include education, integration and practical support for relatives who fear that one of their relatives may become radicalised or join a terrorist organisation. there is a second point to be stressed: limiting the spread. in this respect, we know that the internet can convey the best and the worst, and therefore sometimes illegal content or the promotion of terrorism. it is absolutely necessary to act at this level and to have this content deleted. as regards prisons and the management of radicalised prisoners, the necessary decisions must be taken to counter the spread of extremist ideas and contain radicalisation. all this does not, of course, make us forget that more generally - and we are working on this - a comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy is needed, with coordinated actions, compulsory and systematic checks at the external borders, a pnr more than ever necessary, among other things.
in writing. ‒ the attacks in paris on 13 november have reminded us of the imminence of the terrorist threat and the need to show unity and solidarity in combating it. the union and the member states must coordinate their efforts to combat terrorism. i have supported this report which makes a number of concrete proposals. better coordination of member states' actions will make it possible to curb radicalisation in prisons, to challenge the criminal liability of the internet giants or to cut off the foreign funding needed to recruit european citizens. in order to guarantee the safety of citizens, it is essential to ensure mandatory and systematic controls at the external borders of the union. the text also stresses the need to strengthen intercultural dialogue not only through education systems but also in disadvantaged neighbourhoods in order to encourage social inclusion. finally, i supported the request for the establishment of a european pnr as soon as possible. the european parliament sends a strong message and calls on the european institutions and the member states to coordinate their efforts and provide concrete responses to the growing terrorist threat.
in writing. ‒ we have just been struck in the heart of europe by terrible attacks. these crimes are no longer committed by individuals from third countries, but by european combatants, indoctrinated and radicalized. the whole of our continent is affected, and we must act in a coordinated way at european level. the dati proposal risked turning prisons into indoctrination centres, and we have largely amended its report to take account of the many causes of radicalisation. we are calling for the creation of a european counter-terrorism centre, which could, for example, act against the spread of violent extremism on the internet. we particularly emphasise the need for a specific prevention policy: ambitious education and social integration policies and the ideological response are effective tools for preventing the radicalisation of young people. we need more than just the security measures envisaged by mrs dati, we need a global strategy. prevention and the safeguarding of our rights and freedoms must be integrated into our systems in order to build an effective long-term response against radicalisation.
in writing. ‒ this report is extremely politically correct, pro-community and pro-european. it does not call into question schengen and open borders. some examples: paragraph 1: "stresses that terrorism cannot and must not be associated with any religion, nationality or civilization". paragraph 28: 'stresses that europe's diversity and its multicultural communities are an integral part of its social fabric and an essential cultural asset'. paragraph 38: 'reaffirms its commitment to work towards the completion of a union passenger name record (pnr) directive by the end of 2015'. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks in january 2015, the parliament addressed the issue of the terrorist radicalisation of europeans. i abstained on this report, which was debated after the deadly attacks in paris, because, although it contains positive elements, it places the emphasis, as in other areas, on security and repressive measures, the prevention aspect being weak and very vague. the resolution also calls for the urgent adoption of the directive on air passenger data, including the integration of intra-european flights. it also proposes that internet service providers become police auxiliaries. internet surveillance is necessary in a strictly limited framework, must not lead to confusion of roles and must remain under the control of the judge. the condemnation of people returning from syria or iraq cannot be done without concern for the reasons for their return and without taking into account the changing profiles of people who have gone to these areas. the repression is not enough, otherwise there is no need to speak of prevention. a large number of measures in various fields are needed to avoid stigmatisation and widespread suspicion.
in writing. ‒ the current european regulatory framework for the improvement and prevention of risks in the working environment consists of 25 directives derived from a framework directive adopted in 1989. the proliferation of legal texts shows the futility and the profound stupidity of the european project as it is conceived today. the strategic framework in question aims to simplify legislation under refit, while parliament wants to undertake further work to broaden the employment forms covered by this framework and to address new challenges. the house also called for the commission to be given greater powers to monitor the implementation of the framework agreement on health and safety at work and to ensure that the labour inspection services are sufficiently numerous and well trained. with my colleagues from the front national and the enl group, we believe that undertaking further work to increase standards and strengthen enforcement does not appear to be the priority in the current context. a revision of the directive on posted workers must be given priority. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it identifies several important challenges facing european employers and employees in this area. addressing these challenges is of the utmost importance and requires legislative and non-legislative initiatives.
in writing. ‒ since 1989, the principle of establishing standards to improve the prevention of risks in the working environment has been reflected in a european legislative framework comprising some 25 directives. standards are multiplying in every possible area. this makes it difficult to apply in national law and to put into practice. the commission wants to simplify legislation under refit, while parliament wants to undertake further work to broaden the employment forms covered by this framework and to tackle emerging risks such as psychosocial or musculoskeletal disorders. parliament wants to support smes in order to promote the framework agreement on health and safety at work and to ensure the training of labour inspection services. i think that the legislative framework needs to be simplified, as many accidents at work affect undeclared jobs, and it would be more useful to revise the directive on posted workers, for example. i voted against this because, although i think that improving health and safety at work is important, we cannot continue to impose complex standards on companies.
in writing. ‒ 25 european directives are already aimed at preventing risks linked to the working environment. since 1989, the framework directive has guaranteed decent working conditions for european employees, but leaves the member states free to grant them additional social benefits. this type of harmonization helps to combat social dumping in some eastern european countries. however, introducing additional constraints and adopting a stricter regulatory framework does not seem to be a sensible approach, especially in times of economic crisis, as small and medium-sized enterprises and smes would suffer from this type of measure. the text also calls for improving the prevention of accidents and occupational diseases at european level, which will lead to a proliferation of legislative measures that will make it more difficult to transpose into national law and apply it in practice. the text also proposes to integrate new emerging risks such as psychosocial or musculoskeletal disorders into the regulatory framework. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ one of the european union's priorities is to ensure a safe and healthy environment for workers working in the european union. in this context, the development of a new union strategic framework for health and safety at work is essential. it is true that social policy remains a competence of the member states. however, a european approach allows for an exchange of good practice which is useful and necessary in order to ensure the best possible working conditions for european citizens. i voted in favour of this report which highlights the need to make the labour market fit for the challenges we are facing today.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report stresses the importance of the right of workers to the highest level of health and safety protection at the workplace. parliament welcomed the eu's strategic framework for occupational safety and health for the period 2014-2020 and called on the commission to make legislative proposals, in particular on musculoskeletal disorders. with my colleagues in the epp group we have also called for measures to deal with the new risks of work, such as psychosocial risks. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that health at work is an essential element for professional development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work to strengthen the protection of workers. it is essential that the union reinforces its arsenal of instruments to combat undeclared work, harassment and violence at work and to combat, inter alia, the causes of musculoskeletal disorders at work.
in writing. ‒ in europe, 160 000 deaths are caused by occupational diseases and 4 000 by accidents at work every year. every worker must have access to a safe and healthy working environment. it's a fundamental right and it has an effect on the economy. keeping workers healthy has direct and measurable effects on productivity and also contributes to a more sustainable social security system. the european union must ensure that the framework for health and safety at work is effective and simple. this requires better enforcement of existing rules, in particular by helping small businesses to engage in a preventive approach. while legislation should be simplified to remove unnecessary administrative burdens, this should in no way lead to lower standards.
in writing. ‒ every year, more than 4000 workers die in accidents at work and more than 3 million suffer serious accidents that result in more than 3 days' absence from work. it is our role as meps to ensure a healthy and safe working environment for the 217 million workers in the union. that is why i voted in favour of the christensen report on the european union's strategic framework for health and safety at work. the resolution recalls the importance of health and safety at work in achieving the eu's active ageing target, while stressing the importance of communication and information in ensuring better enforcement of standards. i think it is important to have a comprehensive strategy on the subject of endocrine disruptors which have adverse effects on the health of workers.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on occupational accidents which remain a major cause of mortality, with around 4000 deaths each year and fatal work-related diseases estimated at over 150,000. as the labour market evolves, this paper focuses on the new occupational hazards linked to precariousness and the professions of the net economy. it called for the establishment of a monitoring and review of comparable data on psychosocial risk factors in order to assess exposure levels and prevent their occurrence. i have of course voted in favour of this report, which shows that europe is also social and that the harmonization of policies also requires a better word for all the workers of the union.
in writing. ‒ this report on the further introduction of risk prevention standards for the working environment is another contribution to the european regulatory inflation. the report, by wanting to make the labour code more onerous and by putting pressure on employers, misses a reality which takes away much of its effectiveness. the majority of accidents at work occur in undeclared jobs. while reducing occupational risks is a relevant objective at european level, the simplification of the legislative framework under refit is a top priority. i therefore opposed this report.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i am opposed to an additional pile of standards.
in writing. ‒ at present, the european regulatory framework for the improvement and prevention of risks related to the working environment is divided into 25 directives, under the aegis of a framework directive dating from 1989. this particularist approach is limited in the transposition phase into the national law of the member states, and even more so in the application phase. the strategic framework in question aims to simplify legislation under refit, while parliament wants to undertake further work to broaden the employment forms covered by this framework and to tackle new challenges. parliament called for more support for smes to ensure better application of the framework agreement on health and safety at work, better monitoring of its implementation and ensuring that labour inspection services are sufficiently numerous and trained. our group believes that undertaking further work to increase standards and strengthen enforcement does not appear to be the priority in the present context. we therefore point out that a high proportion of accidents at work affect people in undeclared jobs. as such, a revision of the directive on posted workers would be more useful. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ole christensen on the strategic framework for occupational safety and health 2014-2020. the aim is to guarantee a high level of health and safety for all european workers. the report also takes into account the specific needs of smes in bringing them into compliance with these standards. i also support the establishment of a strategy on exposure to endocrine disruptors, which have adverse effects on the health of workers. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to underline that all workers have the right to the highest possible level of health and safety protection in the workplace.
in writing. ‒ the christensen report on health and safety at work is a step in the right direction as we call for new legislation to limit risks and any harassment or violence related to work. it was an opportunity for us who worked on the subject in the committee on employment to bring back the question of musculoskeletal disorders, which the commission had put under the carpet for too long, and to take account of the risks associated with new ways of working or the handling of new substances. we are asking for the updating of the texts on the limit values for carcinogens or mutagens, for example, not only by revising the limit values for exposure but also for 'cocktail' effects (when different substances or molecules are handled and can be combined). finally, we call for the development of a comprehensive strategy against endocrine disruptors (substances which affect our dna). i therefore welcome the adoption of this report by a large majority of 536 votes to 95, with 28 abstentions. it is now up to the commission to show the determination we have asked of it in dealing with these new risks of work and tackling others that have been identified for too long.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because it unreasonably increases the standards imposed on companies.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. although we are in favour of improving health and safety at work, at national and european level, we cannot but regret the multiplication of standards imposed on companies. the two institutions (parliament and commission) have a different approach: the commission wanted to simplify the framework and parliament has finally made it more complex, by extending the forms of employment concerned, which results in an unbalanced text. rather than imposing unnecessary additional constraints on the member states, we prefer to vote against.
in writing. ‒ in the european union, more than 4 000 workers die each year as a result of accidents at work and more than 3 million suffer serious accidents resulting in more than 3 days' absence from work. the report notes that 'cancers are the leading cause of work-related deaths, followed by cardiovascular and respiratory diseases', which shows the deplorable quality of working conditions in the union. but the report is satisfied with empty words calling for "a culture of mutual trust and learning encouraging employees to participate in the development of a healthy and safe working environment" when the main concern is to ensure "the application of legislation on health and safety at work in the member states". finally, the report stresses the fundamental role of labour inspectors and the importance of "ensuring that labour inspection services are adequately staffed and resourced". in view of the steady decline in their numbers, i have some doubts as to whether this objective will be achieved. i am voting for this report with no illusions about its effects.
in writing. ‒ the policy framework in question aims to simplify legislation under refit, while parliament wants to undertake further work to broaden the employment forms covered by this framework. parliament called for more support for smes in order to improve the application of the framework agreement on health and safety at work, better monitoring of its implementation and better use of labour inspection. the front national believes that undertaking further work to increase standards and strengthen enforcement does not appear to be a priority in the current context. it is therefore necessary to emphasise that a high proportion of accidents at work affect people in undeclared jobs. as such, a revision of the directive on posted workers would be more useful. the member is therefore opposed to this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the strategic framework published by the commission last june. the aim of this framework is to improve the prevention of risks related to the working environment. it guarantees minimum working conditions in the union, but leaves the member states free to introduce stricter measures. the report calls for further work to be undertaken to expand the forms of employment covered by this framework and to deal with emerging risks, such as psychosocial disorders or the revision of the maternity leave directive. i am firmly against the union interfering in the labour legislation of the member states (knowing that it is the main destructive force), and considering that the current context does not lend itself to the establishment of new standards of at least theoretical utility, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the harmonisation of occupational safety and health strategies in the european union. the text recalls that the number of fatal accidents or occupational diseases varies widely between member states. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services.
in writing. ‒ i was not able to vote for this report, but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. it recalls the right of employees to the highest level of protection in matters of health and safety at work. any new proposal from the european commission will, however, have to be based on sound assessments in order to avoid multiplying the requirements in this area, which could lead to their being unreadable and thus have a negative impact on employees and companies.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which reiterates the need to strengthen the european strategy on health and safety at work. the economic crisis seems to justify budget cuts in these areas, while risks to health and safety at work are responsible for the increase in the number of workers in precarious situations. the report calls on the commission to combat effectively the precarious work which plunges many european citizens into situations of instability and social isolation, and thus calls on it to report on the new diseases to which workers are exposed, particularly in the face of the development of new technologies. it also stressed the need to increase labour inspections, which are fundamental tools for preventing precariousness, whereas they are steadily declining under the austerity policy pursued by the commission.
in writing. this report concerns the strategic framework published by the commission last june. the aim of this framework is to improve the prevention of risks linked to the working environment. it guarantees minimum working conditions in the union, but leaves the member states free to introduce stricter measures. the report calls for further work to be undertaken to expand the forms of employment covered by this framework and to deal with emerging risks, such as psychosocial disorders or the revision of the maternity leave directive. i am firmly against the union interfering in the labour legislation of the member states (knowing that it is the main destructive force), and considering that the current context does not lend itself to the establishment of new standards of at least theoretical utility, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ with this report, we are taking stock of the tools and lines of work for a strategic framework on health and safety at work. better european coordination will improve our tools. i would like to emphasize, however, the endocrine disruptors: we know that exposure to these substances is dangerous for the health of workers, so we need a comprehensive strategy at european level to combat them.
in writing. ‒ every year, there are as many as 4 000 deaths in europe caused by work accidents and more than 150 000 fatal diseases directly or indirectly linked to working conditions. the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european union's strategic framework for health and safety at work provides concrete solutions to improve safety conditions at work while simplifying the current legislation, the administrative complexity of which is hampering the functioning of our european smes and micro-enterprises. the aim of this text is to encourage dialogue between business leaders, the public authorities and the social partners in order to encourage the adoption of adequate and effective measures, particularly with regard to workers exposed to asbestos, but also in the prevention of psychosocial risks linked to stress and the increasingly high work requirements. finally, the fight against social dumping represents a real opportunity to harmonise working conditions from the top down in europe. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report, voted by a large majority, should shake the commission, which is dragging its feet in improving the living conditions of workers in the company. the european parliament called for better protection of workers from carcinogens and mutagens and asked the commission to set more exposure limit values for these substances. this is essential in the construction sector where employees are often exposed to asbestos and tar, among other things. the text also recognises the dangers of endocrine disruptors, which are particularly harmful to women. but we must go further and the commission must present a strategy to prevent such risks as soon as possible. it is equally vital to recognize the risks of stress, including burnout. according to the european agency for safety and health at work, more than half of all workers report that they experience stress at work frequently. in europe, stress is the second most frequently reported work-related health problem. it was therefore urgent for parliament to alert the commission to this.
in writing. ‒ every year, more than 4 000 workers die as a result of accidents at work and more than 3 million people are victims of serious accidents resulting in more than 3 days' absence from work. in the face of these alarming figures, europe must act and find solutions in the field of health and safety at work; i therefore voted in favour of this report on the new eu strategic framework for occupational safety and health 2014-2020. the existing health and safety rules must be better enforced and the prevention of work-related diseases improved. health and safety in enterprises must be a priority and information must be better disseminated as they are the source of better performance and competitiveness. the aim is also to improve enforcement controls and to strengthen the coordination of national labour inspectorates. finally, it is important that all these measures can be implemented in a simple way, so as not to penalise our smes and small businesses.
in writing. ‒ working towards more standards and closer enforcement does not seem to be a priority in the current context. in addition, it is well known that a high proportion of accidents at work affect people in undeclared jobs: a revision of the directive on posted workers would be more appropriate. while reducing occupational risks is a relevant objective at european level, the simplification of the legislative framework under refit is a top priority. it is high time we stopped adding standards to the burden of business. i therefore vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ every year, more than 4 000 workers die in accidents at work and more than 3 million suffer serious injuries. the number of accidents at work has decreased in recent years, but progress in the field of prevention, health and safety at work in the union remains below expectations. the report by parliament calls for the highest level of protection of health and safety at work to be ensured for all workers, irrespective of the size of the undertaking employing them, and for an assessment of the practical implementation of the directives on health and safety at work in the member states. the importance of social dialogue and worker representation in reducing the negative impact on the physical and mental health of workers of the increase in precarious work in the union requires addressing psychosocial risk factors. that's all there is to it. this report is paved with good intentions. i voted in favour, but i have no illusions about the possibility of their being implemented by the member states.
mr president, the aim of this valletta summit is to establish an action plan with the countries of origin and transit of migrants to prevent disasters and to tackle the causes of migration. but what dialogue are we seeking to establish? what about? with who? in reality, aid is increasingly conditional on the implementation of measures to prevent migrants from leaving their country and to readmit them when they have managed to reach the european union at the risk of their lives. yes, it is about outsourcing our policies even more. the aid promised under the millennium development goals is being delayed again and again. worse still, many member states, including france, are withdrawing and dragging their feet, including in feeding the trust fund, which is itself largely supplemented by the european development fund. where are the new measures? the neighbouring countries are increasingly becoming host countries. can we continue to turn a blind eye to the living conditions of migrants in these countries? their rights, including the right to asylum, are being misused and the debate is being shifted from the countries of origin to the willingness to cooperate with the worst dictatorships, such as those in sudan and eritrea. not all countries are on the same plane. training eritrean border guards, strengthening the capacity of sudanese justice, but who are they laughing at? will we go as far as quadrangular reversals between the countries of the horn of africa? the legal channels are becoming more and more closed and mobility is just a nice talk. pragmatism, rationality, you say, is what we're looking for. no, you can't! cynicism and powder in the eyes. i'm sorry, but i don't believe that.
mr president, in the face of the flood of migration, the european union has shown its usual angelic spirit by opening its borders wide. it's no surprise, schengen is a strainer. however, recently her speech has changed, and she seems to have been overcome by fear, like mrs merkel, who opened her arms to 800 000 migrants, in reality more than a million, before closing germany's borders. but in its panic, the union has just made two mistakes following the valletta and g20 summits. the first concerns turkey. the eu offers three advantages to turkey if it agrees to keep the 2 million syrian refugees on its soil, 3 billion euros, visas to allow turks to enter europe and the resumption of the eu accession process. it is too expensive and it is too naive to trust a state that has betrayed us, by playing a double game with daesh. we will lose our 3 billion and we will have in the union, the turks, the syrians and turkey. the second mistake is about africa. the eu is providing €1.8 billion to help it manage its migration flows and its 15 million refugees. it has thus succeeded in upsetting the africans, who have not failed to compare this sum with the 3 billion offered to turkey. a partnership of a completely different scale should be established with africa, including aid for its economic development to settle its people there. weak with its false friends, arrogant with its potential partners, the union has unfortunately once again proved its inability to deal with the migration crisis. the conclusion is that the union is no longer credible, it is not the solution to the problem, it is the problem. it is urgently necessary to replace it with a europe of nations which respects the sovereignty of states.
mr president, at the valletta summit europeans and africans concluded a political declaration and an action plan. but, on the face of it, these measures are totally ridiculous and disappointing in view of the urgency and gravity of the situation. africa's population is 1.2 billion and will increase by one billion within 30 years. the european union is facing an emergency: it is a matter of stabilizing the flow of migrants. but it must also look to the future, and if africa fails to develop, there will be even more migrants, more young people who, all connected, will go to seek their future in europe, which is still the eldorado in their eyes. today, two-thirds of the african population have no access to energy, no access to light. access to energy means access to water, to clean drinking water, to health, to education, to employment, to security. yet africa has real potential for renewable energy development. what he lacks is the capacity to invest. so what do you do? the g20 has recognised the urgency of limiting global warming to two degrees by 2100 compared to the pre-industrial era, but will cop 21 solve the funding issue? that's 100 billion dollars a year that we need by 2020. help third countries to move to a low-carbon economy. if we want to reduce and stop the flow of migration, europe must help the countries of africa, help them to educate their children, train their youth and provide them with jobs on the spot. but no development is possible in a modern world without energy. too much time has been wasted. so yes, member states must take urgent and decisive action, otherwise future generations in africa and europe will blame us for our lack of action. in return, african states must do everything possible to be partners of the european union and to fight terrorism, illegal immigration and radicalisation. finally, it is time for the union for the mediterranean to be more than an empty shell.
mr president, i would like to take a message from valletta: the european union has remembered that it is a neighbour of africa and that the conditions for the development of africa are a matter of concern to it. thank you, madam vice-president, for reminding us that we are not going to bargain, to negotiate this development aid for africa in exchange for a halt to migration. these are two very different cases. europe has a responsibility towards africa. i remember a time when the member states were mobilized to implement the resolutions they had taken together to provide aid of 0.7% of their gnp for the development of areas such as the african economic area. these are figures that we don't even mention anymore! we must recover this tendency, this capacity to cooperate with those who are struggling in regimes and regions that do not experience economic development in a calm way. i take back from the g20 summit the commitment to combat the financing of terrorism. so we europeans have to go further. we have to be consistent. when we ask for country-by-country information to be published here, what are we asking for? we demand that our multinationals pay their taxes where they make their profits, here and there. these are very concrete measures which, in the spirit of valletta, we could implement. in the same way, when we call for the import of minerals from the conflict areas to be stopped, we are contributing to fair remuneration, to a calmer and better economic development of africa. this is our responsibility: to continue tirelessly to work for a renewal of cooperation, in the interests of africa and in our own interests as well, with a mobilization against this insane finance, this taxation that escapes the interest of european citizens, but also of africans.
mr president, a hope, a finding, a good thing. first of all, let us welcome - and let us say this loudly in the presence of mrs mogherini - the organisation of an eu-africa summit for the first time, putting both sides on an equal footing at the same table. a somewhat half-hearted observation, and many of us have said it tonight: we are making big announcements. summits, international conferences, a g20 are announced, where the issue of migration is put on the agenda for the first time. but what is the result? as both sides have said, these meetings have not produced the results hoped for, nor have they answered the essential and fundamental questions that have been put to us. but we could have used these opportunities to provide realistic responses to emergencies. and then, of course, there is the hope that africa and europe have destinies which are not strictly common, but which are inextricably linked and which require us to cooperate more and consolidate our approaches. in conclusion, before giving lessons here or there and especially to african countries, europe must show its ability to deal humanistically and appropriately with the strategic issues that are ours, in particular the migration crisis with african countries.
mr president, commissioner, minister, first of all three key words: urgency, urgency, urgency. yes, there is an urgent need to allow for substantial funding linked to migration. it is true that in valletta the heads of state and government laid the first foundations for a management of the migration situation unprecedented. the amount of 1.8 billion euros is intended to create a fund for the development of africa. it is necessary, but it is not enough, commissioner, minister. it is obvious, as commission president juncker recently said, that we would have to go much further, namely to double the stakes. only 78.2 million euros have been put on the table so far. once again, unfortunately, we feel that words outweigh deeds. we are aware of the challenges facing our aid to africa's development. we need a marshall plan for africa. it takes 250 billion euros of work to electrify africa. so we must allow a programme of eight to ten years. that's 5 billion euros of public subsidies a year that we need to find for africa. the european parliament, the european commission and the european council must therefore be mobilized, not only to combat this migration, to enable the development of africa, but also to combat terrorism. when we see boko haram in cameroon a few days ago, when we see mokhtar belmokhtar being the author of the murders in bamako a few days ago, it is therefore necessary that at cop21, all of us, as many as we are, be there to allow a resolution to take into account this important funding, this marshall plan for africa. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam, excuse me for saying this, but i think you're missing the economic issue, the challenge we're facing. it is not a matter of being in a nationalist protectorate, as your words imply, but of making it possible through our partnership with africa, not only europe but the whole world, on the occasion of cop 21, to find the funding to develop this youth who will not only find work in africa, but who, through their work, will also enable the development of this african continent. the european union and africa are brothers, and this must be taken into account, and i believe that it is necessary to deepen this development axis.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, since last april the situation in burundi has been deteriorating. we are witnessing an explosion of violence. arrest and arbitrary executions are increasing, with at least 250 deaths to date. the minister of the interior is sending barely veiled threats of calls for mass slaughter, causing the tutsi to flee and already making more than 200,000 refugees. civil society is being subjected to a brutal crackdown. ten major ngos, including acat, have had their activities suspended and their accounts frozen. they're being harassed. pierre claver mbonimpa is a symbol of this. he survived an assassination attempt, but his own son was just murdered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. there must be sanctions. the european union has triggered article 96 of the cotonou agreement, and that is good. the un has adopted only a minimum text, without providing for the sending of a mission to the area or sanctions, as originally planned, under pressure from the african union, in particular, on the grounds that this is only an internal crisis. we must do everything we can to stop the violence and prevent another genocide before it is too late.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner's representative, i will speak a little more broadly, a little more geopolitically. we have moved from a unipolar world, characterized by american leadership, to a bipolar world. china today is the second largest economy, and the first largest, by the way, in purchasing power parity. to maintain its leadership, the united states needs europe. the transatlantic treaty is part of this perspective. they need above all that europe should be divided in two and that there should not be a multipolar world and a eurasian alliance. if it were european - and this is an alsatian speaking - the whole policy of the european commission would be based on the example of german and french culture, which have enabled europe to build bridges between two cultures, namely between western and eastern culture, and more particularly russia, and would make it possible to build this great multipolar european complex. but you refuse! you want all countries, whether serbia, moldova, georgia or ukraine, to make an exclusive choice in favour of a policy which is contrary to the interests of europe. you are betraying europe. you will be judged!
the agenda calls for the debate on the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors - 2014 (2015/2852 ((rsp)). i would like to warmly welcome mr vitor caldeira, president of the court of auditors.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as in 2012 and 2013, the european court of auditors is issuing a negative opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments made by the union, estimating the level of error at 4.4%, which is well above the 2% threshold. i would like to draw your attention to the particularly high level of error in the allocation of the european structural funds, with a rate that explodes to 5.7%. as this report indicates, performance should be at the heart of public servants' priorities. the complexity of administrative procedures and the intersection of the europe 2020 strategy with the multiannual financial framework are also creating intolerable financial anomalies to the detriment of the peoples of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. all this is clearly still very insufficient in view of the challenges ahead.
the debate is closed. the competent authorities shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for debates on cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (rule 135) and firstly for a debate on seven motions for resolutions on afghanistan, including the massacres in zabul province (2015/2968 (rsp)).
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, kunduz, the strategic city in the north-east of afghanistan, fell to the taliban at the end of september. it is a blow to a government whose legitimacy rests on a promise, a state that will not collapse because its security forces are capable of protecting the cities. an investigative report, released a week ago, attributed the derailment to a complex chain of command. to put things as they are, it is the corruption of a part of the high ranking army that is fingered, appointed, if not bought, by former president karzai. their failure to do so has caused panic in afghanistan. corruption is the enemy of peace and peace seems to be getting a little further away as the taliban, and now daesh, continue their excesses. so what can the european union do? we must not forget afghanistan at a time when all eyes are on syria, because the whole region is affected by the threat of daesh and our actions in raqqa will inevitably have an impact on kabul. secondly, we must push and help president ghani to implement a relentless fight against corruption, which must start with putting the military on the right track. the afghan people deserve to be protected.
author. madam president, i should like to begin by apologising for not being able to take part in the previous debate, but i was delayed by a meeting of the delegation for the coordination of electoral missions, where i represent my group. the situation in cambodia is worrying, to say the least, both economically and socially and politically. in july we denounced the ngo law and a similar law is now targeting trade unions. it's one of the poorest countries in the world per capita. a third of the population lives below the poverty line, youth unemployment is over 50% and about 1 000 000 people have been victims of land grabbing, particularly by large multinational agro-food companies, and the phenomenon seems to be getting worse. the corruption and cronyism are devastating. the political crisis has been worsening since the july 2013 elections. repression and harassment are the daily lot of the opponents of the regime and all activists, including associations. we must use our influence to bring cambodia back on the path of dialogue and before the situation deteriorates further. it is possible in this country which is very dependent on international aid.
madam president, corruption and patronage are indeed the hallmarks of authoritarian regimes. europe has a duty to combat these anti-democratic acts everywhere, particularly when it provides development aid. the violation of human rights and the imprisonment of political opponents are unacceptable to us europeans and we must speak with one voice in defence of democracy in cambodia, as elsewhere. cambodia, as you know, has a troubled history. we must help him to find his way back to democracy. commissioner, thank you for opening a dialogue with the cambodian government to check the use of european aid and to ensure that it is used properly for the return to democracy.
in writing. ‒ this text is intended to prepare for the december wto meeting in nairobi. the european parliament wants the wto to set up a global free trade system which dismantles individual country standards in favour of global standards. he even proposes that the wto could take up "non-trade matters". these additional surrenders of sovereignty would be dramatic since they would prevent the states themselves from legislating. the text also calls for wto agreements to be legally binding on the signatory states. i was of course opposed to this text, which makes free trade a veritable dogma.
in writing. ‒ since the wto is the arm of free trade under the american banner, i voted against this text which encourages the union to continue its erroneous ways.
in writing. ‒ the doha round is the ongoing negotiation for an international free trade agreement under the auspices of the wto. it started in 2001 and 14 years later it is still stuck, especially with india refusing to make any deal to defend its agriculture. this text is to prepare the meeting in nairobi in december. it calls for the wto to establish an even deeper global free trade and to dismantle individual country standards to establish global standards. he even proposes that the wto should be able to deal with these "non-trade issues". the text also seeks to undermine the sovereignty of the states in the field of trade policy, which is totally unacceptable, by making free trade agreements legally binding. i therefore naturally voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament calls, through this text, for the wto to establish an even more comprehensive global free trade system which would also include the standards of each country. it is precisely this kind of arrangement that confronts the developed countries with rapid deindustrialization, uncontrolled unemployment, and thus also with a decrease in their tax revenues and an increase in their social charges, all leading to ever-increasingly abysmal public deficits. the proponents of this policy of death try to hide the risks of such orientations by advocating policies favourable to smes which in reality they make impossible to implement. the text also calls for wto agreements to be legally binding, which would make them even more damaging. for all these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ since 2001, the doha round has been a round of negotiations under the auspices of the wto on the liberalisation of international trade. fourteen years later, the agreement is on the wrong track, much to the chagrin of the commission and the european parliament. india is blocking any deal to defend its agriculture. the text is intended to prepare for the wto meeting in nairobi in december. the wto is called upon to promote international trade agreements to deepen global free trade. to this end, it is recommended that the wto dismantle national standards and establish international standards. the european parliament welcomes sectoral free trade approaches such as the information technology agreement or tisa. the european parliament is trying to hide the danger of such agreements by advocating a trade policy favourable to smes and developing countries. this motion for a resolution is outrageous and forces people to submit to trade agreements specifically designed to favour multinational companies. the standardization of consumption worldwide would enable them to achieve significant economies of scale and thus increase their profitability, to the great delight of shareholders. i therefore voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the world trade organisation (wto) is essential to ensure fair trade competition in the world. the european project is based on the liberalisation of trade. the european union has developed important trade networks with many third countries. however, in this process, it is necessary to ensure that the opening up of trade is non-discriminatory. in this respect, the wto's multilateral approach makes it possible to regulate trade on the international stage by establishing a set of rules that ensure fair global trade competition. we must continue the doha negotiations taking into account the special needs of the developing countries. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution expresses parliament's position on the state of play of the doha development agenda ahead of the 10th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation (wto). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. as such, they consider it necessary to revise the definition of 'developing countries', considering that china still belongs to this category. the european parliament also advocates structural reform of the wto to take better account of the diversity of economic actors, such as smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups. it called on all wto members to speed up the doha round of negotiations and recalled that the latest reform of the common agricultural policy was the union's agricultural contribution to these negotiations. i have voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it to be balanced.
in writing. the increasing emergence of a variety of players in the world economy (smes, micro-enterprises) necessitates structural reform of the wto to better take into account the particular needs and interests of individual member countries. that is why i supported the resolution on the state of play of the doha development agenda.
in writing. ‒ this report on the state of play of a supplementary free trade system is an attempt to make a badly started situation worse. the report, which seeks to encourage the wto's participation in a globalised free trade system, in particular by allowing it to deal with non-trade-related issues, follows the classic logic of the europeanists. what if europe doesn't work? it is that we need more europe; if free trade has led to recession, relocation and the ruin of our industries, we must not go any further. i am committed to the principle of sovereignty, and that the people should be able to decide their own policies. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this debate because it is part of an ever-greater opening to international free trade.
in writing. ‒ this text is in preparation for the december wto meeting in nairobi. the european parliament calls on the wto to establish a global free trade system which dismantles individual country standards in favour of global standards. the text proposes that the wto may deal with 'non-trade matters'. such a surrender of sovereignty would be catastrophic, since it would deprive the states of the power to legislate. the text also calls for wto agreements to be legally binding on the signatory states. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the state of play of the doha development agenda in the context of the 10th wto ministerial conference. the european parliament calls for the specific interests of the least developed countries to be taken into account and for the definition of the term to be clarified. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of customs union and for the establishment of a common customs union with the countries of central and eastern europe. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ at the next wto ministerial conference in nairobi from 15 to 18 december, the european parliament gave its opinion on the state of play of the doha development round. the lange-zalba report is a plea for global trade, making trade openness the answer to the current economic downturn. it uses the usual arguments on the merits of trade but with a tropism of 'support for the least developed countries'. but for these countries, to be bound by these multilateral agreements means to be deprived of all the instruments of control of production or imports which protect their agriculture or their nascent industries. emerging giants, such as india, are opposed to these negotiations, while smaller countries are trying to gain immediate benefits that will weigh on their longer-term development prospects. the amendments i have supported denounce these negotiations in terms dictated by the nordic countries and call instead for a plurilateral trading system based on social and environmental objectives. but for all these reasons, i have of course voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am opposed to the conclusion of a global free trade agreement within the wto.
in writing. ‒ the doha round is the negotiation of an international free trade agreement under the auspices of the wto. launched in 2001, it is now on the wrong track, partly because india is blocking it to protect its agriculture. the text was intended to prepare the wto meeting in december (nairobi). the european parliament wants the wto to fully liberalise world trade and dismantle individual country standards. in a spirit of total abandonment of national sovereignty, brussels would even like these wto agreements to become legally binding on the states. they could no longer legislate on their own foreign trade. this global free trade agreement, which aims to stifle all state protectionism, is what i am fighting for every day in the european parliament and more specifically in the committee on agriculture. i have voted against this text, logically and without any hesitation.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. the doha round is an ongoing negotiation for an international free trade agreement, under the auspices of the world trade organization (wto). this cycle began in 2001 and is on a bad track: the negotiations are being slowed down by the demands of several countries. this slowdown is worrying the european authorities, who want the programme to succeed. the european parliament calls for the establishment of an even stronger global free trade and for the dismantling of individual country standards in favour of global standards. this additional loss of sovereignty is an aberration because it would prevent member states from legislating. we are firmly opposed to this all-out european free trade whim!
in writing. ‒ on the eve of the wto ministerial conference in nairobi from 15 to 18 december 2015, the european parliament gave its opinion on the state of play of the doha development round, launched in 2001 and which has so far fallen far short of expectations. at that time, after years of unrestrained free trade, the wto member countries had proposed that trade should be used to promote the development of the countries of the south. this is a very commendable objective, but it has suffered from the inability of the states to agree on concrete measures. the text voted by the european parliament has taken account of the need to make a real commitment to special and differential treatment for developing countries (ldcs), especially in agriculture, where they are clearly disadvantaged. the lange-zalba report also proposes to reform the functioning of the wto by involving national parliaments more closely. the text calls for greater access for all member states' parliaments to the content of the current trade negotiations. i have no illusions about the outcome of the nairobi conference and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the doha round, erroneously called the "doha development agenda", was aimed at liberalising international trade, in particular by promoting access to rich countries' markets for agricultural products from developing countries (dcs). although it has been considered a failure since 2006, due in particular to the rich countries, the report wants to believe in a "structural reform of the wto in order to better guarantee an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system based on common and applied rules" in preparation for the next wto ministerial conference in nairobi. i am afraid that these reforms, which are based on assumptions such as 'the liberalisation of trade is an important instrument for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development', will not bring any good. i vote against this ode to free trade.
in writing. ‒ this text is intended to prepare for the december wto meeting in nairobi. the european parliament calls on the wto to set up a global free trade system which dismantles individual country standards in favour of global standards. he even proposes that the wto could take up "non-trade matters". these additional surrenders of sovereignty would be dramatic since they would prevent states themselves from legislating, especially since the text requires that wto agreements be legally binding on signatory states. the member is of course opposed to this text, which is a continuation of the union's all-round free trade policy.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament calls on the wto to establish an even deeper global free trade and to dismantle individual country standards to establish global standards. it even proposes that the wto should be able to deal with these non-trade issues. these additional surrenders of sovereignty would be dramatic because they would prevent states from legislating. the european parliament welcomes sectoral free trade approaches such as the agreement on environmental goods, information technologies and tisa (deployment of public services). the report tries to hide the danger of such agreements by advocating a trade policy favourable to smes and developing countries. it calls for wto agreements to be legally binding. finally, this is a classic global free trade agreement which we oppose. the group opposed this report because our amendments were rejected.
in writing. ‒ this text of the resolution on the state of play of the doha agenda is intended to prepare for the december wto conference in nairobi. the doha round is the negotiation of an international free trade agreement under the auspices of the world trade organisation, which has been ongoing since 2001. fourteen years after the start of this cycle, the agreement seems to be on the wrong track, much to the chagrin of the european union, which would like it to succeed, as the text recalls. parliament called for the cycle to be extended with a view to establishing an even more successful international free trade system without constraints on the market and for the adoption of legally binding international standards while dismantling the rules imposed by nation states. the text also proposes that the wto should be able to deal with 'non-trade issues' so as not to 'impede market access' to the detriment of states, which would mean an unprecedented abandonment of sovereignty and the development of a materialistic logic for areas such as health or culture. so despite calls for more democratic transparency in trade negotiations and for an agreement that is favourable to smes and developing countries, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the state of play of the doha development agenda in the run-up to the 10th wto ministerial conference. launched in 2001, the doha round aims to create new trade opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules and correct current imbalances in the trading system by putting the needs and interests of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries (ldcs), at the centre of the negotiations. in this text, parliament reaffirmed its commitment to a multilateral trading system based on rules, while recalling the importance of taking account of the sensitivity of certain sectors in terms of market opening, in particular the agricultural sector. the european union contributed to the doha round by reforming its common agricultural policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which comes a few weeks before the 10th wto ministerial conference, which will be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015, the first time in an african country. it supports structural reform of the wto to better ensure an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system that takes greater account of the variety of economic actors, such as smes and micro-enterprises and early-stage innovators. the resolution encourages wto members to make substantial progress in nairobi in december to allow for a swift conclusion of the doha round and to ratify and implement the trade facilitation agreement in a timely manner so that it can enter into force before the ministerial conference. the resolution also urges all wto members to consider all possible options in this perspective in order to achieve an ambitious, comprehensive, balanced and realistic outcome for the doha development agenda.
in writing. ‒ i was not able to vote for this report, but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. it supports a balanced and resolutely multilateral approach which can only promote a north-south rapprochement.
in writing. ‒ as a supporter of free trade between nations, i support the idea of reforming the world trade organisation (wto). i believe that a more efficient structure of this organisation and a more detailed assessment of individual economies will make it possible to better achieve the wto's main objective. i see it in the removal of trade barriers, which in turn will bring economic development and lower prices for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the state of play of the doha development agenda in the run-up to the 10th wto ministerial conference to be held in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015. this is the first time such a conference has been held in an african country. this conference particularly emphasises the objectives of emerging economies. the objectives are varied and concern the vision of our economies, which must be seen in all their diversity. smes and small businesses need to be supported to ensure that trade facilitation is complete. i fully support this initiative, which must succeed in proving today that multilateralism in trade matters still exists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the position of our assembly in the run-up to the next wto ministerial conference. the doha round has several objectives: the creation of new trade opportunities, the strengthening of multilateral trade rules and the correction of current imbalances in the trading system, in particular with regard to the needs and interests of developing countries, and in particular the least developed countries. the means to achieve these objectives must therefore be provided. this requires, in particular, structural reform of the wto and a trade agenda based on a multilateral, free and fair system, for the benefit of all, and with development at its core. common rules must also be obtained and enforced. the wto's cooperation with other relevant international organisations should also be encouraged. in addition, the democratic legitimacy and transparency of the wto must be enhanced by strengthening its parliamentary dimension. the union, as the world's leading trading power, must make progress in the negotiations and ensure that the cycle is concluded in a balanced and realistic manner, while respecting its objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which sets out the european parliament's official position for the negotiations to be held in nairobi from 15 to 18 december in the context of the tenth wto ministerial conference. it is essential to recall that the multilateral level of trade negotiations remains a priority for the european union and that the wto has its full support. in this sense, it is important to take into account in the negotiations the special needs and interests of low-income developing countries and ldcs (least developed countries), while stressing that a clear definition of these countries must be established. we also support a reform of the wto which allows for an open, fair and non-discriminatory trading system and an ambitious, comprehensive, balanced and realistic outcome for the doha development agenda. it is also urgent that the trade facilitation agreement be ratified and implemented swiftly. finally, we should point out that our work in the parliamentary committee has made it possible to recall in the text that certain sectors, such as agriculture, remain sensitive and must be treated differently in terms of trade.
in writing. ‒ the doha round is the ongoing negotiation for an international free trade agreement under the auspices of the wto. it started in 2001 and 14 years later the agreement is on the wrong track, much to the chagrin of the commission and the european parliament who would like it to succeed. india is blocking any deal because of its defence of agriculture. the european parliament calls on the wto to establish an even deeper global free trade and to dismantle individual country standards to establish global standards. he even proposes that the wto should be able to deal with these "non-trade issues". these additional surrenders of sovereignty would be dramatic because they would prevent states from legislating. parliament welcomed the sectoral free trade approaches such as the agreement on environmental goods, information technologies, tisa (decommissioning of public services)... it calls for wto agreements to be legally binding. finally, this is a classic global free trade agreement which i oppose.
in writing. ‒ the 10th wto doha ministerial meeting will take place in nairobi from 15 to 18 december. the aim of this resolution is to define the position of the european parliament before the meeting. unsurprisingly, this resolution is a plea for global trade, making it one of the responses, if not the answer, to the current economic stagnation via the all-out pursuit of trade liberalization that ignores the failures of previous negotiations. better still, the resolution goes so far as to call on the more advanced developing countries to take their share of responsibility in economic development. my group, the gue/ngl, has tabled amendments to denounce this hypocrisy and the negotiations dictated by the interests of the northern countries alone. amendments rejected of course. so of course i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the union and ecuador signed in december 2014 an accession of ecuador to the existing free trade agreement between the union, colombia and peru. this asymmetrical agreement aims to make it easier for ecuador to develop, but above all it asks the european commission to ensure that human, labour and environmental rights are well respected in ecuador. the european parliament notes, however, that despite all its human rights demands to ecuador, the government has reduced poverty by almost half in eight years. i opposed this text, which constitutes a new case of interference by the union in the internal affairs of a sovereign state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which welcomes this new free trade agreement while expressing the human rights paternalism which the union still claims to exercise over these latin american countries.
in writing. ‒ the union and ecuador signed in december 2014 an accession of ecuador to the existing free trade agreement between the union, colombia and peru. this asymmetrical agreement should make it easier for ecuador to develop. the report welcomes this free trade agreement and even calls for monitoring of the banana quota produced by ecuador, which is one of the world's largest producers. unfortunately, this report still interferes with the country's politics by calling for respect for human rights, labour or the environment, but parliament recognizes a halving of poverty in 8 years in ecuador. i do not support this report which welcomes this free trade agreement with a rather strong (though benevolent) interference in the internal politics of ecuador.
in writing. ‒ the union and ecuador signed in december 2014 the accession of this south american country to the free trade agreement in force between the union, colombia and peru. this asymmetrical agreement is supposed to promote the development of ecuador. the report calls on the commission to ensure that human rights are well respected in ecuador. the european parliament also called for banana quotas to be respected, as ecuador is one of the world's largest producers. the european institutions are taking advantage of this agreement to interfere in ecuador's internal affairs. this interference is intolerable, since their government has succeeded in halving poverty in eight years. finally, we cannot but oppose this report which welcomes a free trade agreement. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european union concluded a free trade agreement with peru and colombia in 2012. negotiations with ecuador had been suspended. at the request of ecuador, negotiations have been restarted and ecuador is now in a position to be part of the same agreement. it is important for the commercial development of a country like ecuador to benefit from a free trade agreement with the european union. in this way, the country will benefit from many advantages, especially from the point of view of exports to the union. this agreement takes account of the sensitive nature of the agricultural sector. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because it is part of a planned free trade policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the european union and peru and colombia. the commission has also received comments from the union industry on the measures taken by the union industry to reduce the union industry's market share. parliament therefore encouraged the agreement to enter into force as soon as possible and recommended that the ecuadorian government take measures, particularly on labour law and the environment. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it welcomes this free trade agreement to prepare us for tafta. in addition, it interferes in the name of human rights in the internal politics of ecuador.
in writing. - i voted against this accession. under the guise of a trade agreement, this is in fact an intervention by the european commission in the affairs of ecuador. this agreement, which is totally asymmetrical, makes it easier for ecuador to develop, but it also authorizes the commission to ensure that human, labour and environmental rights are respected. this interference in the affairs of another country is intolerable, and we cannot endorse such actions.
in writing. ‒ by voting on the scholz report, the european parliament was called upon to give its directives on the process of accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the union, peru and colombia. the final text gives strong support to the approach of the european commission and the ecuadorian government, which will, however, have to step up their efforts if they want to achieve ratification of the agreement. the european commission believes that a balance needs to be struck between a firmly protective approach for small ecuadorian farmers and one that does not disadvantage european banana producers (especially in the overseas territories). the ecuadorian government, for its part, is asked, before ratifying the agreement, to put in place convincing measures to combat child labour, deforestation and respect for trade union rights. these are essential prerequisites for the signing of a trade agreement with the union. i voted for this resolution, but i want to remain vigilant. i do not rule out abstaining from voting on the final agreement if it does not take due account of the concerns of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement currently in force between the eu and colombia and peru. the agreement, concluded in 2012, aims to establish a free trade area with the eu and the south american countries concerned. to this end, it provides for the abolition of customs duties and prohibits any future protectionism: "no party shall adopt or maintain prohibitions or restrictions on the importation of goods from another party or prohibitions or restrictions on the exportation, or the sale for exportation, of goods to another party". in this context, the priority objective, enshrined in the ecuadorian constitution, of developing fair trade, may be called into question by the union. moreover, in a completely neo-colonial attitude, the report welcomes "the important efforts made by ecuador in the field of the environment" even though this country is more committed to the defense of the environment than all the states of the european union. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ the european union and ecuador signed in december 2014 an accession of ecuador to the existing free trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru. this asymmetrical agreement should make it easier for the country to develop. this report is a request to the commission to ensure that human rights, labour rights and environmental concerns are properly respected in ecuador. the free trade agreement is expected to enter into force in 2016. we abstain on this text which welcomes this free trade agreement which is rather a rather strong interference in the internal politics of ecuador.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the european union and peru and colombia. the aim is to allow that country to join its neighbours, colombia and peru, in the preferential trade relationship they have with the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the union and peru and colombia. large business groups are now being established or consolidated on every continent. the asean countries, mercosur, west africa are coming together to form regional groups whose aim is to trade more easily, more freely by reducing trade barriers. europe must use its lead to get our partners such as ecuador to facilitate the import of european products into its territory. it is in this spirit that ecuador should be bound by the existing trade agreement with the countries of the region, peru and colombia. europe will now have easy access to the ecuadorian market. however, ecuador is the world's leading producer of bananas. the risk of an explosion in ecuadorian banana exports to europe to the detriment of european producers (i am thinking particularly of the outlying regions) will be contained by the quota set out in the agreement and, above all, by the possibility of applying safeguard measures at the slightest warning sign. my role will be to monitor this market closely to prevent any risk to our producers and consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement concluded between the european union and peru and colombia. on 26 june 2012, the union signed a free trade agreement with colombia and peru after six years of negotiations. negotiations with ecuador were suspended in 2009 and resumed in 2013 at the request of ecuador. the protocol of accession was finalised on 17 july 2014, allowing ecuador to join the peru/colombia agreement. we are satisfied with this agreement on the degree of openness of public procurement and on market access with the abolition of customs duties for many products and the introduction of transitional periods for other products. the text also recalls the sensitivity of the agricultural sector, especially bananas, given that ecuador is the world's largest exporter. a stabilisation mechanism is provided for under the agreement and will be triggered if certain thresholds are exceeded, so as not to jeopardise our european production. we will ensure that the commission respects its proper functioning and will remain attentive to its effective implementation.
in writing. ‒ the union and ecuador signed in december 2014 an accession of ecuador to the existing free trade agreement between the union, colombia and peru. this asymmetrical agreement should make it easier for ecuador to develop. this report is a call to the european commission to ensure that human, labour and environmental rights are well respected in ecuador. this was an express request from the european parliament to the european commission. i cannot vote for a report which welcomes this free trade agreement which is a rather serious interference in the internal politics of ecuador. i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently engaged in trade negotiations with mercosur. the european parliament thus takes a position on the free trade agreement between the european union and ecuador, which is still under negotiation, as it did with the agreements previously concluded with colombia and peru. the rapporteur, my colleague helmut scholz of die linke, stressed the need to respect social and environmental rights. investments have been made by the ecuadorian government to improve access to health and education and to fight poverty. the agreement, however, mainly promotes the opening of the ecuadorian market to mining companies and the development of neoliberal industrial and economic policies. these economic and industrial exploitations risk permanently degrading areas of the amazon rainforest, causing the displacement of local farmers and worsening the situation of indigenous populations, not to mention the risks to workers' rights. i therefore chose to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support the adoption of an animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020, if it is to extend the content of the one currently in force, which runs until the end of 2015. this strategy enables us to ensure that the various existing laws are properly applied in order to ensure better harmonisation within the internal market. no one needs to create new rules for this. it should also help us to include animal welfare in the scope of the union's trade policy, particularly in its non-tariff component. indeed, it is appropriate to require the rejection of free trade agreements which do not ensure that imported products fully comply with the union's animal welfare standards, in order to prevent any distortion of competition for products from third countries. finally, this strategy should enable us to reaffirm the need to provide sufficient budgetary resources in the cap to help farmers to better meet the requirements of animal welfare legislation, and more particularly in the area of standardisation.
in writing. ‒ article 9 of this text is the most interesting since it requires reciprocity of standards in trade treaties and the impossibility of calling them into question in trade negotiations. we believe it is absolutely necessary to maintain high standards which will consequently guarantee our farmers; it is also a way of putting the ttip negotiations on hold. i hope that the commission will take this request for reciprocity into account and i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ article 9 which calls on the commission to 'take into account the reciprocity of animal welfare standards by giving it priority as a non-commercial issue in its trade policy and in its negotiations of international trade agreements, and to promote animal welfare in third countries by requiring equivalent welfare standards for imported animals and products, accompanied by strict controls' having been adopted, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on a new strategy for animal welfare because i believe that animal welfare must be part of the common values cherished by the member states of the union and by any civilized country. i regret, however, that this resolution does not dare to go to the end of its own logic and to put its finger where it hurts. in fact, in the ritual slaughter of animals prescribed by certain religions, notably islam, the needless suffering inflicted on animals demonstrates how the welfare of animals is considered by certain groups of people to be something that should not be respected. the legislation of some member states now allows ritual slaughter only after the animals have been subjected to anaesthesia for religious sacrifice. it is time that this obligation was extended to the whole of the union.
in writing. ‒ i hope that this resolution will enable us to establish a new animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020. efforts have been made in the 2011-2015 strategy, but we must now go further and remove all ambiguities. without touching on the competitiveness of our farmers, who are already hard hit by the crisis, i think it is necessary to give a lasting and financial boost to agricultural policies with animal welfare standards: the gradual abolition of cage systems, of farming on quail, of animal suffering, etc. we must also combat extensive farming, which puts us at risk for health and the environment, but also for animal welfare. i voted in favour of all the amendments which go towards more animal protection and i regret that many of my colleagues did not follow this path. i have supported food labelling on slaughter and farming methods, i have condemned the illegal trade in animal species, i have supported the ban on ritual slaughter without anaesthesia or the strengthening of animal protection rules during transport. finally, i also supported funding for research into best practices to eliminate animal testing. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve animal welfare, particularly on farms. the rapporteur admits that farmers are overwhelmed by administrative obligations. the committee therefore recommends that the cap be given a budget which is sufficiently ambitious to limit the relocation of production to countries where these standards are not respected. we also welcome the fact that this report calls for reciprocal standards, contributing to animal welfare in the negotiation of international trade agreements, without which our producers would suffer unfair competition. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the european commission to renew its animal welfare strategy for a period of four years. the current strategy is due to expire at the end of 2015. it is a matter of being realistic and measured in our approach. since 2006, when the first welfare strategy was launched, much has been done and parliament has adopted a whole series of legislative acts to improve animal welfare, such as the zootechnics regulation, for which i am the rapporteur, the organic production regulation, the official controls regulation and the ban on the practice of cloning for commercial purposes. the present resolution is therefore balanced, since it has been possible to reject a whole series of excessive amendments tabled by the left-wing groups. sceptical of the idea of implementing horizontal legislation in this area, i unsuccessfully opposed paragraph 3 which calls on the european commission to adopt a comprehensive and up-to-date legislative framework on animal welfare; the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. nevertheless, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the epp succeeded in uniting the alde, cre and s&d groups around a common resolution; the text advocates a balanced approach to animal welfare, considering that animal welfare should be further improved on the basis of existing scientific knowledge and taking into account the efficiency and competitiveness of the livestock sector. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the new animal welfare strategy for 2016 to 2020. i am, however, opposed to making european legislation on animal welfare more burdensome for our farmers. before any new strategy or measure is taken, there must be better compliance with existing animal health or welfare legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, while making a number of observations which were made before the presentation in plenary. i would like to point out that a strategic framework already exists and that it is necessary first of all to ensure the correct application of the existing rules in order to ensure better harmonisation of legislation within the internal market, and this without reinforcing the existing rules and creating new ones. i also said that welfare should be included in the scope of trade agreements (in the non-trade area) and, to go further, that we cannot accept free trade agreements which do not guarantee that imported products are subject to the union's welfare standards. finally, i particularly supported paragraph 8 of the resolution which stresses the importance of adequate funding for the cap, since we need a budget that is commensurate with our ambitions in order to prevent the relocation of production and trade to countries or continents with lower animal welfare standards.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for reciprocity of standards in trade treaties and the impossibility of calling them into question in trade negotiations. this is our guarantee of maintaining high standards and thus protecting our farmers, and is therefore a way of putting a stop to the ttip negotiations. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020. the priorities of the union's animal welfare strategy should be the dissemination of good practices and better enforcement of legislation in the member states. parliament also called on the commission to integrate animal welfare into its international negotiations and into the financing of the common agricultural policy. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it protects animal welfare in an effective and reasonable way. however, as a volunteer member of a spa (an independent organization in paris) for over ten years, i am particularly committed to the protection of animals. the resolution also has the immense merit of calling for the respect and reciprocity of these standards of protection in free trade agreements. but i am not sure that the united states will agree to tafta.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it contains an essential article. the committee calls on the commission to adopt ambitious animal welfare standards and, above all, to take account of the reciprocity of these standards. in the context of the ttip negotiations, i see it as an attempt to safeguard the interests of our farmers. it is essential to have strict standards in this area, but it is equally important that these standards are respected by the third countries with which we trade. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's farmers are not subject to the same rules as the slaughterhouses.
in writing. ‒ the report welcomes the fact that 'the level of animal welfare in the union is one of the highest in the world'. it is therefore logical that support for european agriculture helps to "prevent the relocation of production and trade to countries or continents where animal welfare standards are lower". there is still a lot to be done in this area. and while the rapporteur welcomes the fact that parliament has 'adopted legislation on animal welfare issues such as animal health, animal husbandry, organic production and official controls', i would remind you that the european commission is constantly promoting animal welfare-defying breeding methods. for example, the latest recommendations for pig farms which value the 'integral slaughter' system. i am voting for this text, despite its timidity and hypocrisy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which proposes a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020. i agree with this text, which proposes that the committee on agriculture should define good agricultural practice, but i also believe that the new strategy should not increase the administrative burden on producers. the text recalls that they have already made a significant contribution to improving animal health by complying with a strict regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. the european commission adopted its first animal welfare strategy in 2006 for a period of four years (2006-2010). the failure of member states to apply union legislation is the main problem affecting animal welfare in the union. another obstacle to full and uniform application is that the market does not provide sufficient economic incentives for compliance. it is therefore necessary to give greater value to the education and vocational training of all the actors concerned and to ensure that the measures already taken are applied optimally.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on a new animal welfare strategy 2016-2020. i am not going to go back on the attempts of environmental groups, who have become the mouthpieces of the anti-liver-fat movement, to make a splash before the holidays by denying the efforts of the liver-fat industry. for a party nostalgic of the slogan "it is forbidden to forbid", they are the first to want to.... ban everything. fortunately, my political group, the epp, was able to bring together several reasonable parties to put forward a resolution linking the interests of animal welfare, the change in our habits and, of course, the model of society we have built around the food chain.
in writing. ‒ the current animal welfare strategy 2012-2015 ends with a very mixed result: half of the actions planned have not been implemented and the commission does not bring any new serious legislative proposals to harmonise animal welfare and protection in europe. by rejecting an ambitious resolution, the political groups in the grand coalition in the european parliament have shown indifference not only to animal suffering but also to european citizens and consumers who are outraged by animal abuse in factory farming, slaughterhouses and transport. europe must legislate on this issue which affects our health, our food and our environment. we need a new plan of action. we cannot tolerate in europe intolerable practices against animals which are recognised as sentient beings by the treaty of lisbon. the interests of large food industry groups must not take precedence over legitimate concerns about human and animal health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on a new strategy for animal welfare. it is high time to evaluate the 2012-2015 strategy, to implement its outstanding points without delay and to develop a new ambitious strategy for the period 2016-2020. the commission must be more ambitious and require third countries to adopt equivalent standards for imported animals and products, with strict controls. it should also encourage the exchange of best practices and support innovation and research to develop new techniques and technologies for animal welfare. finally, we must not forget the need to provide the cap with sufficient funds to prevent the relocation of production and trade to countries with less stringent standards.
in writing. ‒ for more than 30 years, the eu has been developing legislation to better protect animals. more than thirty texts providing for varying degrees of protection for animals have already been produced, but their implementation and application in the member states remains highly irregular. the european union's animal welfare strategy for 2012-2015 identified some 20 priority actions, but only nine of them have been implemented by the commission so far. this framework needs to be renewed and updated to meet the challenges facing the sector. unfortunately, the resolution we have been given does not live up to expectations. my group, the gue/ngl, had tabled a number of amendments with the greens, in particular to take account of the protection of animals in relation to breeding, transport and slaughter. all these amendments were rejected. the resolution is therefore a declaration of good intentions without any real measures and actions. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the text underlines the paramount importance of education in conflict zones. indeed, education has a major role to play in the reconstruction of post-conflict societies. furthermore, children with access to education are less at risk of forced marriage, early pregnancy, membership in armed groups, radicalization, trafficking in human beings. however, the text proposes to integrate teachers from displaced communities, which could quite logically generate a phenomenon of communitarianism. the text also calls for the creation of 'educational corridors' which would enable students from these conflict zones to continue their studies at a european university. in these circumstances, the desire for very long-term integration seems to supplant the original objective of temporary local aid and thus prevents any social reconstruction in the countries of origin. the general idea is good, but its application is not suited to the challenges ahead. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution underlines the paramount importance of education in conflict zones. i guess so. children with access to education are less likely to be forced into marriage, to become pregnant at an early age, to join armed groups, to become radicalised, to be trafficked or to be subjected to various forms of abuse. the text calls for the creation of 'educational corridors' which would enable students from conflict zones to continue their studies at european universities. however, he also proposes to integrate teachers from displaced communities, which could create a phenomenon of communitarianism. that's why i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this text on the education of children in emergency situations and long-term crises underlines the paramount importance of education in conflict zones. the text reminds us of the obvious: children who have access to education are less at risk of forced marriage, early pregnancy, membership of armed groups, radicalisation, trafficking and human trafficking. nevertheless, this proposal proposes to integrate teachers from displaced communities, which could create a phenomenon of communitarianism. the text also calls for the creation of 'educational corridors' to enable students from conflict zones to continue their studies at european universities. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the united nations estimates that one billion children live in conflict zones. access to education and schooling in these conflict zones is almost non-existent. when conflict persists, it means that the child is deprived of vital elements for his development for many years. humanitarian and development aid must serve the purpose of providing schooling and proper education for children in conflict zones. in this way, children affected by the conflict will be able to continue their intellectual development more easily when peace is restored. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on member states to support the european commission's objective of increasing the share of humanitarian funds for the education of children in emergency situations to 4% (of humanitarian aid). it also stresses the importance for all host countries to help integrate refugee children into their national education systems. an estimated 65 million children are affected by emergencies and long-term crises in 35 countries and about 37 million children of primary or lower secondary school age are out of school in crisis-affected countries. however, education in emergencies is the most underfunded sector, with only 2% of humanitarian aid allocated to these needs. i believe that education is one of the most powerful tools for getting children, and every individual, out of a disadvantaged situation, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. in crisis and conflict situations, education is the most neglected area. the education and schooling of children is a priority because it is the way to train the citizens of tomorrow. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution for an increase in humanitarian aid for the education of children and a better integration of refugee children into the education systems of the member states.
in writing. ‒ this text highlights the paramount importance of education in conflict zones. education has a key role in the reconstruction of post-conflict societies. furthermore, children with access to education are less at risk of forced marriage, early pregnancy, membership in armed groups, radicalization, trafficking in human beings. however, the text proposes to integrate teachers from displaced communities, which could quite logically generate a phenomenon of communitarianism. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the education of children in emergency situations and long-term crises. education is a right for every child in the world and children who are caught in emergency situations or long-term crises should not suffer. the text stresses that education enhances development and is an element in the reconstruction of societies after conflicts. parliament also called on the member states and humanitarian organisations to enable refugee children in very difficult situations to continue their education. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i abstained on that resolution. it does, however, emphasize the importance of educating children in building a more stable world. but it proposes to recruit teachers from displaced communities, which is likely to strengthen communitarianism.
in writing. - i abstained on that vote. this is motivated by the dramatic increase in crises around the world, and the tragic increase in the number of children affected. it recalls that education is a fundamental right and the basis of responsible citizenship. the proposal stresses that education must be a priority for member states and humanitarian structures. although the proposals are good, there are some points which are not in our favour. it proposes, for example, to welcome and educate refugee children and adolescents, which is commendable, but it also suggests integrating teachers from displaced communities, which could result in a communitarian effect. the idea is still laudable, but not appropriate.
in writing. ‒ the millennium development goals set the goal that all children should be able to complete a full cycle of primary education by 2015. the target was not reached (91% against 83% in 2000), particularly in view of the increasing number of crises and displaced persons, but also because of attacks on educational institutions by government security forces and non-state armed groups in some 30 countries worldwide. the report supports the pursuit of this objective and calls, among other things, for the "development of public services accessible to all", the strengthening of development aid and the establishment of sustainable funds at international level to provide education in emergency situations. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. i am opposed to this, especially in countries where there is no state structure. the multinationals have no charitable interest in development, but are driven by capitalist logic which is particularly destabilizing in countries in crisis or developing countries. i can't back that. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ the text underlines the paramount importance of education in conflict zones. indeed, education has a major role to play in the reconstruction of post-conflict societies. furthermore, children with access to education are less at risk of forced marriage, early pregnancy, membership in armed groups, radicalization, trafficking in human beings. however, the text proposes to integrate teachers from displaced communities, which could quite logically generate a phenomenon of communitarianism. the text also calls for the creation of 'educational corridors' which would enable students from these conflict zones to continue their studies at a european university. in these circumstances, the desire for very long-term integration seems to supplant the original objective of temporary local aid and thus prevents any social reconstruction in the countries of origin. the general idea is therefore good, but its application is not adapted to the challenges ahead. the member therefore abstains.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, according to the united nations, one billion children live in conflict zones, 250 million of them under the age of five and are deprived of their fundamental right to education. an estimated 65 million children aged 3 to 15 are affected by emergencies and long-term crises and are therefore at risk of dropping out of school, and some 37 million children are out of school in primary and lower secondary education in countries experiencing crises. about half of the world's schoolchildren live in conflict-affected areas; in the arab states, 87 per cent of out-of-school children are affected by conflict and an estimated 175 million children are at risk of being affected by natural disasters each year. moreover, some groups, such as poor children, girls and children with disabilities, are seeing their already reduced prospects further diminish in conflict-affected areas or in fragile settings. let us mobilize to save their future!
‒ the education of children in crisis situations and in protracted crises is one of the most pressing issues of our time. although not seen much on television news, it is one of the most negative effects of the situation of millions of people forced to live in refugee camps after being driven from their homes. supporting the functioning of education in such conditions must be a top priority. personally, i think that after protecting lives, health and ensuring adequate nutrition, education must come first. we're fighting for the next generation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the education of children in emergency situations and long-term crises. humanitarian crises have been many throughout history. millions of children have been and are victims of conflict. ignoring them is making them a lost generation. and lost generations are the breeding ground for the next conflicts. to avoid this, a link must be established, a framework for the education of children in all situations. the wars against the terrorist organization daesh, or boko haram in nigeria, show that children are at the heart of these conflicts. to prevent children, witnesses and victims of conflict, from growing up to become adults, perpetrators of conflict, let us maintain an educational link and invest in all generations, wherever they may be.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the education of children in emergency situations and long-term crises. according to the united nations, one billion children live in conflict zones, 250 million of them under the age of five, and are deprived of their right to education. some 65 million children aged 3 to 15 are at risk of dropping out of school and 37 million children are out of school in primary and lower secondary education. and children who are not in school are more at risk of early marriage and pregnancy, of being recruited into the regular army or armed groups, of being trafficked and forced to work. quality education can also play an important role in the long term in the reconstruction of society after conflict. finally, education should be a priority in humanitarian aid, development aid and the allocation of resources from union funds. we call on all the member states of the union to support the commission's objective of increasing by 4% the european humanitarian aid budget for education in emergencies.
in writing. ‒ according to un figures, around half of the world's schoolchildren live in conflict-affected areas and an estimated 65 million children aged 3-15 are affected by emergencies and crises. in view of these alarming figures, the european union and the international community must act urgently. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which calls on the member states to support the commission's objective of increasing the share of the union's humanitarian funds for the education of children in emergency situations to 4%. as we face and respond to the refugee crisis, host countries must ensure that refugee children have full access to education. finally, the union must work with partner countries to improve the education of children in conflict situations and prevent them from becoming targets of armed conflict. the european union must act for the generations of tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ despite the fact that this is a good initiative, there are several problematic points in this text. while the proposal calls on member states to provide access to education for refugee children and adolescents by integrating them into national education systems and facilitating their learning of the host country's language, it also proposes to integrate teachers from displaced communities, which could create a phenomenon of communitarianism. the integration of refugee students in transit into the universities of member countries is also one of the directives of this text which calls for the creation of "educational corridors" to allow students from conflict zones (syria, iraq and eritrea in particular) to continue their studies in european universities. i therefore choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ we are experiencing one of the worst humanitarian crises the world has seen since world war ii. today, half the world's schoolchildren live in conflict-affected areas. the schooling of children exposed to emergency situations requires almost eur 7.5 billion a year and the funding gap in this area now stands at over eur 4.5 billion. while eu aid is increasing, with €4.7 billion in developing countries for education for 2014-2020 (compared to €4.4 billion for 2007-2013), this is still well below actual needs. the resolution calls for more resources, in particular to achieve the millennium development goals on education, and supports the establishment of a global education emergency financing mechanism to address current shortcomings. unfortunately, rather than reminding member states of their commitments, this resolution calls for more private sector investment. commercializing education and humanitarian aid cannot be the solution. while the military intervention in mali alone has cost about a billion euros, more than ever, i believe it is all a matter of political choices. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report recognises that administrative procedures are too complex and that simplification is more than necessary. however, it asked the commission to provide a roadmap to the member states. the commission is also calling for closer relations with local authorities without going through the national authorities. i have therefore decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the text recognises that administrative procedures are too complex and therefore require real simplification. this is a very good admission for the brussels bureaucrats. the text nevertheless calls on the commission to provide a roadmap to the states and advocates strengthening relations with local authorities at the expense of national authorities. another way to cut back on what's left of our sovereignty...i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this text on the search for simplification and efficiency in cohesion policy for 2014-2020. it recognizes that administrative procedures are too complex and require real simplification. unfortunately, this text also calls on the commission to provide a road map to the member states and even advocates strengthening direct relations with local authorities to the detriment of national authorities. i cannot therefore support this party which wants to wipe out the sovereignty of nation states in favour of eu/local relations.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution acknowledges that the complexity of administrative procedures reduces the effectiveness of the structural funds in the member states of the european union. the text stresses that beneficiaries, in particular smes and small businesses, may no longer have an interest in making applications, as the costs of obtaining these funds are sometimes too high. simplification would therefore help to increase the absorption rate of funds. we are pleased to see that the european institutions are becoming aware of the negative consequences of their bureaucratic system for economic actors. we are, however, opposed to the commission making further recommendations to the member states. we believe that the main factor in the present administrative complexity is the commission's refusal to review its internal functioning. finally, we are absolutely not in favour of the union strengthening its relations with local authorities as called for in the text. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is essential to achieve the growth and employment objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the structural funds which make up cohesion policy enable european citizens to finance their various projects. these funds must be made available as soon as possible so that this financing has a direct impact on the real economy and on job creation. in this context, it is imperative that the procedures for obtaining these funds be simplified so that they can be allocated more quickly to the recipients. of course, controls are necessary. it's not just about funding any project. however, we must not get lost in a bureaucracy which would scare away the smallest project promoters. i voted in favour of this report and therefore for a more effective cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for greater simplification and efficiency in cohesion policy, despite the efforts already made through better regulation and policy reform in the framework of the 2014-2020 programming period. the european parliament points in particular to the existing over-regulation, including in the process of transposition of european rules by national authorities, and the administrative burden caused by complex procedures which discourage applicants for european funds. the resolution calls on the european commission to provide member states and regions with detailed guidelines and a roadmap to streamline and simplify control, monitoring and reporting activities, including for beneficiaries. i support the objectives of this report and am convinced of the importance of european funds to support economic and social development projects at local level, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the search for simplification and efficiency in cohesion policy because i believe that action is urgently needed to ensure that project promoters applying for european funds are no longer discouraged by the complexity of the procedures. management costs, the number of supporting documents and processing times are all factors which discourage potential beneficiaries, especially the 'smaller' ones. while controls are necessary and legitimate, a better balance must be found to reduce the share of european funds absorbed by bureaucracy. much progress therefore remains to be made in simplifying the rules applicable to beneficiaries and fund managers, both on the part of the european commission and on the part of the member states, which too often add administrative layers when transposing european texts. in my view, access to finance for smes and the development of online procedures should be given priority. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. - i abstained on that resolution. it is true that it recognizes the need to simplify administrative procedures. but it advocates strengthening the union's relations with local authorities at the expense of the states.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to simplify the rules on the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) on the assumption that they are still too complex for both the beneficiaries and the managing authorities. it is true that small and medium-sized enterprises, ngos and municipalities, which need eu funding, often lack the financial and human resources and the skills to successfully apply for and manage eu grants. the report therefore proposes 'simplifying the language' or establishing a single window for regional funding. the commission is also urged to encourage member states to 'significantly reduce the administrative burden and over-regulation' which affect, in particular, 'procurement procedures, the selection of project proposals and monitoring and control activities'. i believe, on the contrary, that strict controls are essential when public money is involved. i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote for this report but i fully support the position of the epp group and the french delegation to adopt this report. the resolution stresses in particular that over-regulation is a drag on potential beneficiaries of european funds. similarly, smes or small municipalities are hit even harder by the complexity of the procedures. the report calls for a reduction in administrative burden at all levels, a simplification of control activities and the development of online procedures. this is a key objective for ensuring that these funds are used to the best possible effect by citizens.
in writing. i consider reducing the administrative burden in the whole process of allocating funds from the european funds to be one of the priorities of the whole of european integration. european money helps where it can in the vast majority of cases, but the whole process is often too complicated. efficiency is therefore a real concern.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the search for simplification and efficiency in cohesion policy for 2014-2020. action is urgently needed to ensure that project promoters applying for eu funds are no longer discouraged by the complexity of the procedures. i am campaigning for the removal of barriers to international trade. i find some of these obstacles in cohesion policy. management costs, the number of supporting documents and the time taken to process them all discourage potential beneficiaries. some people don't file because of the red tape. access to finance for smes remains a priority. we must act now.
in writing. ‒ today, due to overly complicated procedures and over-regulation, and more particularly in the transposition of directives, many smes, ngos and micro-enterprises face inequalities in access to public procurement and subsidies. the joint lack of skills and financial resources in fact penalises them in certain administrative procedures such as public procurement or grant applications. the resolution proposal on the search for simplification and efficiency in cohesion policy for 2014-2020 aims to provide solutions to this complexity. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal, which is aimed in particular at reducing the administrative burden which is mainly and arbitrarily borne by the smaller structures. the text encourages the member states to simplify the regulation of public procurement by standardising procedures and to streamline and simplify control activities.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which calls for a simplification and greater efficiency of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. procedures under the european structural and investment funds remain complex, both for the beneficiaries and for the managing authorities. this complexity, which particularly affects small beneficiaries such as smes or municipalities, must be reduced. to this end, in particular, administrative burden and over-regulation in procurement procedures, the selection of project proposals and monitoring and control activities should be eliminated. for example, we need stability of rules and standardization of procedures. in addition, the deadlines for the transition to e-cohesion must be respected, the sharing of good practice must be encouraged and the use of the multi-fund approach increased. cohesion policy is an essential instrument to support our territories and their people in their development and the exploitation of their wealth. we must therefore use all the levers we can to improve its operation.
in writing. ‒ the application, management, reporting and controls of the structural funds are still too complex despite the european union's desire for simplification. the procedures for beneficiaries, especially smes, who need european funding, present many obstacles. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which makes a clear statement and on which all the parties involved agree. it called on the commission to provide the member states and their regions with a roadmap to streamline and simplify control, monitoring and reporting activities, including for beneficiaries, in order to eliminate the difficulties currently encountered. it is urgent that everyone should be able to benefit from european funds, and that without hindrance.
madam president, i wrote in my report on cop 21, this cop 21, this paris summit, is not only about fighting climate change, but also about changing the economic paradigm. however, by developing the circular economy, we are enabling this change of economic paradigm and we are enabling - and i think it is interesting to see this proposal for a directive, which is going in the right direction - first of all, savings in raw materials. it is worth noting that €630 billion of the eu's trade deficit can be attributed to a dependence on imported materials. we also have job creation: the circular economy is two million new jobs. and then, it's an environmental protection; co2 emissions would decrease by 48% in 2030 and by 83% in 2050 compared to 2012 levels. these are proposals for developing the circular economy that are indeed moving in the right direction and are in line with our objective discussed right now in paris at cop 21.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal on the circular economy is both ambitious in its objectives and realistic in its implementation. producing and consuming without concern for the future availability of our resources or the accumulation of waste is part of another time. coupled with a re-industrialisation strategy, the circular economy can be a model to make europe sustainable. it also offers opportunities for growth and green jobs, and it helps us to cope with the volatility of commodity and energy prices. i particularly welcome the announcements in favour of water policy, which is already a major environmental, economic and geopolitical issue on a global scale. the principle of waste water reuse is a key concept to be promoted in europe in order to meet the dual challenge of providing sufficient quantity and quality of water. our companies are developing advanced technologies; let us give them the means to disseminate them by defining clear and common rules at european union level.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by roberta metsola and ska keller, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on petitions, on the special report of the european ombudsman in the frontex own-initiative inquiry oi/5/2012/beh-mhz (2014/2215(ini)) ((a8-0343/2015).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, three of the islamist terrorists who killed 130 people in paris came to france through greece by infiltrating among the migrants. this tragedy should have prompted the european union to tighten its immigration policy. she chose instead to persist in error. this report illustrates this by facilitating the bringing of complaints by migrants against frontex agents for alleged violations of fundamental rights. the manoeuvre is obvious, the aim is to reduce the possibilities of expulsion even further; appeals will take time; ngos will explain to migrants that they need to deposit money to earn a few more months of stay and eventually no one will be deported. the union is already barely able to send one in three irregular migrants away. this is unacceptable. it is the protection of the security and identity of europeans that should be our priority, not the opening up of our borders.
madam president, i also join in the congratulations of the two co-rapporteurs and the fictitious rapporteurs. no more justice and fairness. if we had to sum up the frontex resolution in two words, they would be: justice and fairness. the timing of the events meant that we had to finalize this resolution a few days before the deadly attacks in paris. so obviously, all eyes are on refugees, and obviously, many people stigmatize them a little bit more. europe, despite the dramatic difficulties of the moment, will continue to be a land of refuge for those fleeing barbarism. another reason to review the role of frontex is that, because the situation is dramatic and the climate is nauseating, it is essential that fundamental rights are actually respected. this inalienable principle is enshrined in the resolution. frontex will be obliged to set up an independent internal complaints mechanism. the agency can no longer be judge and jury and no longer be the nebula excuse. and in this complaint handling, special attention will be paid to pregnant women and unaccompanied minors. to enable them to exercise these rights, refugees will receive information in the ten most widely spoken languages. finally, in addition to enhanced cooperation with third states, frontex will need to work better with agencies such as the fundamental rights agency and the european asylum support office. the latter, which is present in all member states, is not sufficiently used; in this time of crisis, it can be an indispensable tool.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by karima delli, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on sustainable urban mobility (2014/2242 ((ini)) (a8-0319/2015).
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow 80% of europeans will be living in cities: that is why mobility should be a right for everyone. for those people who travel to work or to buy goods, for those people - and especially young people - who go to school, for those who go to the dentist or the doctor, and for those who go to the cinema or the stadium for entertainment: basically, mobility is our everyday life. however, much remains to be done to ensure that mobility benefits everyone, as it is still far from being chosen. most often, it is suffered, because of traffic jams, because of the loss of time, because of air pollution. the reason for this is the excessive use of the private car, which runs on traditional fuels. cities were built for cars: let's give cities back to the people, because there's a climate emergency. we're in the middle of cop 21. urban transport alone accounts for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions. it is up to us to reverse the trend if we want the european union to meet its 2030 emissions targets. there's also a public health emergency: in 2015, breathing kills. 400,000 premature deaths a year are caused by fine particulate matter emitted by diesel engines. should we, when we have pollution peaks, lock up pregnant women, children, the elderly to keep their lungs intact? there is no time to wait. pollution is the disease of the 21st century, as the un recognizes. there is also urgency with regard to our independence. the energy consumption required for our transportation makes us too dependent on oil dictatorships, now in the spotlight. there is also an urgency for the lives of road users. 38% of road deaths occur in urban areas. how can we reduce the number of deaths in cities if we do not reduce the use of cars? finally, there is a social emergency: 25 million european households are the new mobility precarious because they have little or no access to public transport, or because it is too expensive. so another form of mobility is not only possible, but essential. if we want to re-think how we move, we need to consider the social, environmental, economic and democratic impacts of transport. we must take into account the present and future generations. to achieve this, the european union must set itself ambitious targets. in the midst of cop 21, let us put energy efficiency at the heart of our urban mobility policies. this will happen, whether we like it or not, with the exit of diesel, with the disappearance of our urban centers from traditional gasoline cars by 2050. this will also be achieved by developing clean transport: tramways, cable cars, bicycles, car-sharing, which generate jobs. this will be achieved by shifting from road to river and from road to rail, but also by intermodality through the combination of walking, cycling and public transport. the obstacles are very, very many. there are all kinds of lobbyists here; the commission has already made a number of proposals, including the famous car lobby, the status quo lobby, which will do everything to prevent these proposals from being implemented. but we must not forget our responsibility. ambitious legislation is needed if we really want this commission - your commission, madam commissioner - to be the commission of last resort, as mr juncker says and reminds us. the europeans are waiting for us at the crossroads and are counting on us to move forward. so i say: let's not disappoint them, urban mobility must absolutely be a priority.
madam president, urban mobility is one of the major challenges of the 21st century because it is at the crossroads of the three pillars of sustainable development: ecology, economy and social. working towards sustainable urban mobility means making a concrete contribution to the fight against air pollution and global warming. with transport accounting for 25% of co2 emissions, with increasing urbanisation and hundreds of thousands of people dying every year from air pollution, we have a political responsibility to make sustainable mobility a key issue in european policies. i therefore call on all members to support amendment no 1, which raises the fundamental problem of diesel and calls for initiatives to move towards clean fuels and out of subsidies for diesel. working for sustainable urban mobility also means fighting social exclusion and ensuring territorial cohesion. this is a fundamental aspect of the mobility issue and i regret that during the debate in committee the right wing blocked amendments to strengthen the social dimension of the report.
member of the commission.– madam president, i wish to thank members for all their comments and for the questions they raised. allow me to comment a little bit more and give you more information about our next steps. we are all becoming more and more aware of the multidimensional challenges that urban mobility presents. with the 2011 transport white paper, the commission set the objective of a competitive and resource-efficient urban mobility. the urban mobility package of 2013 addressed in greater detail how to achieve these objectives, but this report gives new impetus to the implementation of that package. with parliament’s support, the commission will concentrate efforts in the area where eu action can bring added value but with full respect for the subsidiarity principle. in particular, we are planning to: pursue a more holistic approach to smart, sustainable and resilient cities; further support cities, industry and r&i by promoting a marketplace for trading solutions; offer cities and innovative projects promoters support for real—life testing under horizon 2020; help cities to use different eu funding opportunities, and to combine public and private investment, for instance from the european fund for strategic investment; and run platforms – as one of you also mentioned – for exchange of practices, since at eu level this can have a much bigger impact than many think. let me now directly respond to some of your questions and comments. as regards freight, by all means, you have full support for that from me. the 2011 white paper already talked about nearly—zero—emissions city logistics by 2030, so green urban logistics are in our programme and in our minds. the second question was on road safety, which is a very important element, especially for the most vulnerable in traffic. a lot of work has been done, but we are pushing member states on a daily basis to do even more. we especially work very closely with the countries that statistics have shown to be the worst, with the direct involvement of all stakeholders in the country to bring fatalities figures close to zero in the future. by the way, bikes, as mr cramer and some other colleagues have mentioned, are one of the important elements of the green freight solutions in cities so yes, this topic will not go away and we will continue to address it and look for options on how to support it even further. there were a couple of questions and comments regarding diesel. clearly we need to improve the overall system that allows cars to be placed on the market – the type-approval system. we need more european oversight, effective control mechanisms and better quality and greater independence of vehicle testing. we need to move – and i fully support this – from lab testing to real driving emission tests for co2 as soon as possible. at the same time, i do count on the electrification of transport being delivered, as we expect, in the near future. as regards awareness raising, the commission for example has been promoting multimodality with the ‘do the right mix’ campaign as part of european mobility week and has focused attention on walking and cycling in combination with an increased use of public and collective transport as a good way forward for all of us. allow me also quickly to go back to the comment regarding cycling. please, let us not underestimate the economic benefits that this brings, not only in health, but also the positive effects on congestion and co2 and, of course, the positive effect on the transport industry. i welcome the council’s declaration, and we will work within our mandate to support it. finally, allow me also just to say a couple more words regarding the overall subject. long-term engagement at all levels of governance is key to making european cities smart, well-connected and green, and the commission is ready to support the emergence of new ideas within our mandate. they are the stakeholders that can drive prosperity and offer quality jobs. within my portfolio, 2016 is the year for decarbonisation and i am sure that we will address urban mobility very comprehensively as part of that initiative. i am counting on members’ support and am really looking forward to making our planet look even better than it does today.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to correct some of the remarks made by my colleagues in the epp. i would like to point out that the report does not say: no cars. it says: ban on cars in the city centres, especially those cars with conventional fuel, as it says in the white paper carried by mr van de camp. so don't try to tell us what's not in our report, let's set the record straight. first of all, the solutions in this report are real. let's set ambitious goals for cycling in cities by 2025. let's double the public transport network by 2030. yes, let's create a european day of cycling, let's make the day without cars a universal one. encourage all member states and cities to develop sustainable urban mobility plans. let's move towards ambitious speed limits to limit fatalities on our streets and make the car compatible with cyclists and pedestrians. let's get the freight going again as part of a european plan. let us really invest in urban mobility a significant part of the eurovignette, a significant part of the juncker plan, but also european funds. finally, let us include in our mobility plans new practices, including intelligent transport, i am talking about car-sharing, car-sharing. all this will not be effective without a review of the air quality legislation. for too long member states, including my own, have been sued in the court for not respecting the limits. the victims are europeans. these are the same people who are the victims of diesel emissions fraud. so i say, madam commissioner, that all this must be reviewed urgently in order to be more effective in serving the health of citizens but also the state of our planet.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, i am an old member of parliament whose prostate grows as his energy decreases. on that day, the vote lasted two and a half hours. can you tell me, please, what provisions the rules make for my political presence to be assured despite the requirements of physiology or do i have to satisfy my natural needs by remaining in my seat? finally, i should like to point out that on 10 october 1987 i witnessed our former colleague, mrs trautmann, a socialist member of parliament, vote for more than 160 absent members of her group, with only one of her colleagues, by turning the keys fraudulently, contrary to the rules of procedure of the national assembly, the french constitution and the organic law governing the delegations of members.
i'm the reporter. mr president, the amendment you are about to vote on is really important because, despite the revelations about the volkswagen scandal, we still find that there are public subsidies for fossil fuels. i am thinking in particular of diesel, which enjoys a tax advantage over traditional petrol. if we want to reduce the use of conventional fuel cars in our cities, we have to act. we therefore propose collectively, through this amendment, to call on the member states to put an end to public subsidies for fossil fuels.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, we are gathered here tonight, a rather small number - i should say a large number - unfortunately two years after the first reading vote on the kratsa-regner report, to debate again the issue of greater participation of women in the decision-making bodies of large listed european companies and to find out exactly where the work is going in the council. mr minister, you have, a bit like the scottish shower, alternated the good news with the bad news. we can only conclude that we are wholeheartedly with you and with commissioner jourová in the pursuit of progress, a path of progress, at the epsco council meeting on 7 december. i would like to remind you, however, as my colleague, mrs gabriel, has done, that there is undoubtedly an effort on the part of the european parliament, in the context of this first reading, to be lucid, to be responsible, to make a strong commitment, but with a great deal of pragmatism and respect for the positions of the member states, respect for the principle of subsidiarity, respect for a number of principles and wishes which had already been put forward by various member states. we have assumed our responsibilities, we have taken a number of significant steps without compromising on the essentials, without renouncing our strong commitment to greater participation of women in the decision-making process on the boards of directors. there are still some of us here in parliament who think that coercion and quotas can work. i come, for example, from a country france where a law came into force in 2011, the so-called copé-zimmermann law. it certainly worked. it has undoubtedly had an effect: 33% of women on the boards of the major french groups. there is no doubt that coercion works. but we respect what can be said, the different legal cultures and approaches of the member states. we just have to keep in mind - it has been said by others, but i want to stress this point - that the waste of women's talent, the waste of women's skills, the waste of the fantastic efforts of training, of education that are being deployed through our education systems, our training systems for women, for young girls... (the president withdraws the speaker)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, since may 2010, the human rights situation in hungary has been deteriorating. this parliament has had the opportunity to debate them and to vote resolutions calling on the commission to act. it is not just hungary that is affected, all states are affected to a greater or lesser extent by human rights violations, and it would be good if both countries would stop their political obsession. your answer, madam commissioner, was long, but it did not satisfy me. is the commission really the guardian of all the articles of the treaty? what is the role of the european parliament if our resolution of last june seems to be a waste of time? is the charter of fundamental rights really an integral part of the treaties? how can it be constantly mocked without any real reaction from you? so yes, the rights of migrants are symbolic. they are being raped in hungary as elsewhere, and especially in france, my country. but i remind you that in hungary, the police now have the right to shoot at migrants. when i hear you, madam commissioner, i am sad. i would like to say that the commission is more efficient in economic matters: you have spoken of state aid, of tax increases, but what about the rights of individuals? you're waiting for the court's decision, but you're telling us yourself that justice is a problem in this country. so it is no longer time to write, it is no longer time to talk, it is no longer time to worry, we must act without waiting for the death penalty to be reinstated, as you have just told us.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, once again this umpteenth debate on hungary is taking the form of a lynching of the government of viktor orbán. that is a strange concept of european solidarity, but you are making it sound so familiar. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. the schengen agreements to the letter? these agreements provided for free movement within the european union and i do not blame the countries of the former soviet union for being ardent supporters of them. but in return, these same agreements were supposed to secure the external borders of the european union. but in the face of frontex's obvious failure, in the face of the lack of political will to stem the unprecedented influx of illegal immigrants, mr orbán is doing what all european leaders should have done, he is protecting his people from this massive and uncontrolled immigration, the consequences of which he has seen in western europe: mass unemployment, communitarianism and, today, terrorism. when we see what has become of brussels, which is now under siege, we understand that viktor orbán wants to save budapest from your madness.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 june our parliament adopted a pseudo-moralistic proposal to denounce the desire for political revival initiated five years ago in hungary by mr orbán. since then, the hungarian government has made its case worse in the eyes of brussels' political correctness. he has successfully erected a deterrent barrier on his country's border, he has rejected the quota system which dilutes and perpetuates the invasion of migrants, he has taught by leading a real political resistance in central europe, united in the visegrád group with poland, the czech republic and slovakia. unlike the genuine candidates and the false naïves who populate our assembly - and i am not talking about the hypocrites - mr orbán did not wait for the tragic events in paris to act. his fears were well founded, as we learned only a few hours ago that the alleged mastermind of the paris attacks, salah abdeslam, had returned from syria, had transited through hungary and austria before the paris attacks. mr orbán's determination to preserve the security and freedoms of hungarians is better than your guilty blindness of yesterday and your blurry and ineffective security policy today. i thank budapest for giving the europe of peoples and the europe of oligarchies lessons in lucidity and good governance.
in writing. virunga national park is the most biodiverse park in africa. it has been on the unesco world heritage list since 1979 and is home to many iconic species (gorillas, okapis, elephants, etc.). oil exploration and exploitation, combined with a host of illegal activities, can cause irreversible damage to the park. it is threatened by this exploitation, but also by the exploitation of gas and minerals that feed all the greed, whether of multinational companies or of local armed groups or terrorists. at present, more than 140 people have already been killed in the drc in virunga national park. once again, economic interests take precedence over the environment, nature and the human race as a whole. against the principle of interference, i believe we must cooperate jointly with the drc, the united nations and all possible local actors to ensure the safety and preservation of this magnificent park and its species. we must also find a way of putting pressure on the european multinationals in the drc to respect the principles of human rights and the environment in the region.
in writing. ‒ the issue here is whether to decide on a further extension of the taxe committee or rather to set up a taxe 2 committee with a new mandate. the commission will be asked to complete the examination of the documents that the commission and the states had not initially provided in the context of the luxleaks scandal. although it is not a committee of inquiry as we would like it to be, it will have a significant margin of manoeuvre to continue its inquiry. the work of this committee will culminate in a final report presented by two co-rapporteurs. with my colleagues from the national front, we are in favour of the constitution of this new taxe committee, in order to denounce the tax evasion of certain large groups. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a decision extends the mandate of the taxe committee for six months from 2 december 2015 in order to examine the practical application - whether this practice falls within the remit of a member state or the commission - of eu state aid law and tax law, in particular as regards tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect issued by member states, and harmful corporate tax regimes and practices at european and international level. in reality, this text allows the appointment of a new committee with a new mandate, in order to complete the work of examining the documents which had not been provided by the commission and the states. it is still not a committee of inquiry, but the new rules are sufficiently broadly worded to allow for much more inquiry, as was requested by several political groups. another final report will be produced after six months and i therefore voted in favour of waiting.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution aims to extend the term of office of the taxe committee in order to complete the work of examining the documents which had not been provided by the commission and the member states. we can welcome the work of this committee, which makes recommendations to the european institutions to limit the tax-optimising practices of multinationals in collaboration with the national authorities of certain member states. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to adopt the mandate of the new special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe ii) which is being set up for six months. following the lux leaks scandal at the end of 2014, the european parliament set up a temporary special committee on taxation in february 2015 (the taxe committee). the aim of this report is to extend the mandate of the committee, in order to complete the work that was not completed during the first period. i believe that the work of this committee has helped to speed up the debate on the fight against tax evasion, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks scandal, the european parliament set up a special committee to investigate tax evasion and tax fraud by companies in the european union. a serious and exhaustive survey of the methods used by multinational companies has been drawn up and several recommendations have been made to combat these practices which are contrary to the principle of equality before tax. this is not just a luxembourg issue, but one of many other european countries which have given unusual tax advantages to certain entities or even to certain states, leading to undesirable distortions of tax competition. one possible answer is fiscal harmonisation within the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the extension of this special committee which, despite its limited investigative capacity ‒ i supported the creation of a committee of inquiry with greater powers ‒ does an excellent job of shedding light on the harmful practices of tax rescripts, which allow certain states and large multinationals to get along in order to circumvent european taxation. the aggressive tax planning practices at issue have very serious consequences for the union's public finances and affect its ability to have substantial budgetary means to take concrete action. the political cost at the level of the population is also very high. to make europe credible, it must be presented in an irreproachable light.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the establishment, for six months, of the new special committee on tax returns (taxe ii), to monitor the implementation of the recommendations made by the european parliament on tax returns. since parliament has spoken and put forward proposals on the practices of member states and companies in the field of tax rescission, the effective implementation of these recommendations is important and must be monitored and supported in real time by the european parliament. the constitution of this special committee was supported by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it entrusts a taxe 2 committee with the task of extending the work of the taxe 1 committee for six months. this extension is useful for examining certain documents which were late submitted by the brussels commission.
in writing. ‒ the luxleaks case, on tax rulings pending in luxembourg, was revealed in november 2014. a special committee was set up by parliament in february 2015 to look into the matter. it was renewed for further work in july 2015. when the report was presented last november, we could see that there were still many uncertainties about the responsibility of the luxembourg authorities and multinationals in this case. although this 'special committee' has limited powers, i am voting for the constitution of a new special committee on tax returns which will retain the structure of the taxe special committee.
in writing. ‒ this is the extension of the taxe committee, the appointment of new members and the definition of a new term of office, with the aim of completing the work of examining the documents that had not been provided by the member states and the commission. there is still no committee of inquiry, but the draft is sufficiently broad to allow further investigations to be carried out. i therefore logically voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the taxe special committee, which was responsible for shedding light on the luxleaks scandal and formulating proposals to combat aggressive tax optimisation, was unable to complete its work, in particular because of the reluctance of the commission and some member states to provide the requested documents. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome one, but it is not enough to say that the european parliament has been given a mandate to investigate the fraudulent use of euro coins.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which allows the establishment of a special taxe ii committee, composed of the same members as those of the taxe committee whose mandate has expired. this new committee will continue, for a period of six months, the information work initiated on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. this is to combat tax evasion, which may result in particular from fictitious profit transfers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which re-appoints the members of the previous taxe committee, of which our colleague bernard monot is a member. the taxe committee has done a serious job, despite the limited resources at its disposal and the attitude of the president of the commission, mr juncker, who says that he was not responsible for its administration when he was minister of luxembourg. we, along with the other members of the national front, expect the new taxe committee to shed more light on these scandals. i therefore voted for the renewal of its members.
in writing. ‒ this text should allow the extension of the taxe committee for six months and simply proposes to renew the 45 members of the previous taxe committee. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to adopt the composition of the new special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe ii) which is being set up for six months and whose mandate has been extended. it is proposed that my colleague, mr alain lamassoure, continue his work as chairman of this special committee. i think he has done a very good job and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the composition of the new special committee set up to monitor the implementation of the european parliament's recommendations on tax rulings. the composition is identical to that of the previous taxe committee, its members already having knowledge of the subject and being best placed to follow up the measures they themselves proposed. the appointments were approved by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the members of this committee are appointed in proportion to the composition of the parliament, i.e. 13 members for the epp, 12 for the social liberals, 4 for the ecr, 4 for alde, 3 for the gue, 3 for the greens, 3 for the efdd, 2 for the enf and 1 for non-attached members. i am voting for the members appointed so that this committee can continue its work as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the renewal of the taxe committee, i am in favour of the appointment of its members.
in writing. ‒ the renewal of the current members of the taxe special committee is consensual, it allows the work started last february to be completed and the new mandate to be filled with elected representatives who have already followed the work in progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which allows the establishment of a special taxe ii committee, composed of the same members as those of the taxe committee whose mandate has expired. this new committee will continue, for a period of six months, the information work initiated on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect. this is to combat tax evasion, which may result in particular from fictitious profit transfers.
in writing. ‒ the european union has put an end to banking secrecy by means of the council decision of 20 march 2014. there are now automatic exchanges of information between member states. austria and luxembourg were reluctant and demanded that switzerland and liechtenstein take similar measures because of their proximity to the eu countries, which in fact created unfair competition. as was the case for switzerland at the third plenary session in october, the european parliament was called upon to give its opinion on the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein. the agreement contains provisions which will limit the possibility for taxpayers to evade their reporting obligations to the tax authorities. tax transparency and the end of banking secrecy are necessary to limit capital flight. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the amending protocol aims to implement the single global standard for the automatic exchange of financial account information between the member states of the union and liechtenstein. this standard was published by the oecd council in july 2014. this agreement is the follow-up to the eu-switzerland agreement signed last month, which marks the end of banking secrecy in liechtenstein, via the adoption of the oecd standard. in return, it should allow luxembourg and austria to abandon banking secrecy at union level. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in order to convince the austrian and luxembourg authorities to ratify the agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which was signed in march 2014, the european union negotiated with liechtenstein the end of banking secrecy, which created unfair tax competition in europe. the agreement, which will take effect from 2017, provides for the automatic exchange of data between the member states of the union and liechtenstein on income, account balances and capital gains on the sale of financial assets. these measures will considerably reduce the ability of europeans to evade taxation in their home countries and will enable member states to recover tax revenue owed to them. we are in favour of this cooperation, which will limit tax evasion in europe. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to strengthen the measures to combat tax fraud and evasion between the european union and liechtenstein. it aims in particular to make it more difficult for union citizens to conceal their assets from their national tax authorities. under the agreement, the union and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of residents of each other as of 2018. these will include income, interest, dividends, balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. i have supported this report because i believe that tax fraud and tax evasion are a penalty for citizens, because they drain the resources of the state and create a feeling of injustice.
in writing. the agreement on the automatic exchange of information relating to financial accounts signed between the european union and liechtenstein provides for the strengthening of cross-border tax cooperation. the measures provided for in the framework of this agreement are essential to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion in europe. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. thus, the application of this agreement in liechtenstein avoids distortion of competition. the rules must be respected by all parties to the agreement within the european economic area. i am also committed to financial transparency and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it is in favour of greater financial transparency.
in writing. ‒ in march 2014, the automatic exchange of information at eu level sealed the fate of banking secrecy within the european union. this was not without the reluctance of austria and luxembourg. one of the conditions for the abandonment of banking secrecy by these countries was the acceptance by switzerland and liechtenstein of similar measures, in order not to create unfair competition. the loones report on the memorandum of understanding provides for an automatic exchange of information between the union and liechtenstein on the financial accounts of their respective residents as of 2017. liechtenstein will apply measures on automatic exchanges equivalent to those provided for in eu directive 2003/48. in addition, the agreement provides for a limitation of the possibilities for taxpayers to evade their reporting obligations by transferring their assets or by investing in financial products that do not fall within the scope of the agreement. the information to be exchanged concerns not only income but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. it is important not to leave a country which practices financial opacity at the doorstep of the union, unless we see a continuation of capital flight. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sander loones on the eu-liechtenstein agreement on the automatic exchange of information. the text supports the conclusion of an agreement with liechtenstein which will make it possible to strengthen the fight against tax evasion and bank secrecy by introducing an automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of european citizens with accounts in liechtenstein. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it marks the end of banking secrecy in liechtenstein, by adopting a system for the automatic exchange of information with the european union.
in writing. - i voted for this report. this agreement is part of the end of banking secrecy through the automatic exchange of information within the countries of the european union. austria and luxembourg agreed to give up this banking secrecy only if switzerland and liechtenstein agreed to similar measures, in order not to create unfair competition. with this agreement, liechtenstein agrees to apply measures equivalent to those provided for in the european texts, and thus follows the example of switzerland. tax transparency and the end of banking secrecy are objectives we support.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to approve the taxation agreement concluded between the european union and liechtenstein in october 2015. the agreement will increase tax cooperation and compliance at international level through the establishment of an automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. the new agreement would thus contribute to the fight against tax fraud and evasion, but in view of the tax practices tolerated within the european union (massive tax evasion in luxembourg revealed by the luxleaks case), there are legitimate doubts about its effectiveness. the text excludes issues related to the taxation of pensions and insurance benefits, while life insurance represents the first investment vehicle. finally, it is possible to derogate from this agreement via the 'exemption from disclosure of information', which applies under conditions which are too broad and ill-defined. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ the end of banking secrecy through the automatic exchange of information at eu level had to overcome the reluctance of austria and luxembourg. one of the conditions for the abandonment of banking secrecy by these countries was the acceptance by switzerland and liechtenstein of similar measures, in order not to create unfair competition. liechtenstein will therefore apply measures equivalent to those provided for in the european texts (revised directive 2006/48). it will thus accept the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts as required by the oecd global standards in 2014. tax transparency and the end of banking secrecy are common objectives, particularly in order to safeguard the tax revenues of the member states. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the end of banking secrecy in europe requires that the border countries also accept the same rules of transparency, in order not to create tax havens at the gates of the union, which would exercise unfair competition to the detriment of the institutions and public finances of the member states. the agreement signed with switzerland last month is hereby reproduced with liechtenstein. the commission has therefore every reason to vote in favour of its principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the conclusion of the protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. the aim is to combat tax evasion by allowing the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts.
in writing. the report proposes to approve the amendment of the agreement between the european union and liechtenstein on income taxation, in order to harmonise it with the measures provided for in directive 2003/48/ec on tax cooperation between member states. the introduction of an automatic exchange of banking information is thus envisaged, in accordance with the procedures laid down in the directive, in order to combat massive tax evasion towards the principality of liechtenstein. the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud is necessary, but the measures provided for in this directive are not sufficiently effective. other weaknesses include a disclosure exemption applied under unclear and ambiguous conditions. i abstain to denounce the lack of firmness.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the agreement between the european union and liechtenstein on the establishment of an automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. this agreement, which dates from last october, is now due to enter into force on 1 january 2016. it will allow the automatic exchange of information on bank accounts of residents of each country to start in 2017. i would like to welcome here a significant step towards ending the banking secrecy of european taxpayers. it will be more difficult to hide money, for which citizens are liable to pay taxes, in bank accounts in the country. the tax administrations of the member states should be provided with the necessary means of action. they will now be able to identify the taxpayers concerned, manage and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations or assess the likelihood of tax evasion. tax evasion cannot be tolerated, and that is why i welcome this agreement. i would also remind you that we endorsed a similar agreement between the european union and switzerland on 27 october.
in writing. ‒ last october, i supported the report on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments. it was particularly important to conclude bilateral agreements with third countries as soon as possible in order to make this provision fully effective. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which approves the agreement reached by the council with liechtenstein to continue applying measures equivalent to those of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the end of banking secrecy through the automatic exchange of information at eu level, which was agreed in march 2014, had to overcome the reluctance of austria and luxembourg. one of the conditions for the abandonment of banking secrecy by these countries was the acceptance by switzerland and liechtenstein of similar measures, in order not to create unfair competition. the memorandum of understanding provides that the european union and liechtenstein will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents as of 2017. liechtenstein will apply measures equivalent to those provided for in the european texts (revised directive 2003/48). it will thus comply with the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts as required by the oecd global standards in 2014. in addition, the agreement contains certain provisions aimed at limiting the possibility for taxpayers to evade their reporting obligations to the tax authorities by transferring their assets or investing in financial products that do not fall within the scope of the agreement. tax transparency and the end of banking secrecy is an objective supported by all, in particular to preserve the tax revenues of the states. i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the committee on civil liberties and the committee on petitions, meeting under an accelerated procedure, voted a resolution on frontex which gives immigrants more opportunities to complain against border guards. this vote was held on 23 november, ten days after the paris attacks. it is also astonishing that a text should be adopted which gives legal rights to individuals who are in one of the member states illegally. worse, this resolution gives heavily subsidized ngos the opportunity to file complaints on behalf of illegal immigrants. but that's not all! the text provides for a wide-ranging information campaign to encourage immigrants to make use of their new 'rights'. unlike other french members who loudly proclaim their firmness on border controls, the national front members of the european parliament voted against this aberrant text.
in writing. ‒ here again is a report which is full of good intentions but which could have perverse effects if it were to be applied too rigorously. that is why i voted against this report. of course, we must ensure that the fundamental rights of the union are respected. no one will argue with that. but i am convinced that we can have full confidence in the officials of frontex that these rights will be respected. so far, there has been no slip-up and there is no reason to be suspicious of the people who do their utmost to protect our external borders, often in very difficult conditions, as this report suggests.
in writing. ‒ not content with opening europe's doors wide to massive flows of refugees at the expense of the european people, the epp rapporteurs - that is, the republicans in the european parliament - and the greens in this text want to facilitate the procedures for complaints by migrants to frontex, the european border management agency. we are therefore going headlong with this possibility for people illegally present on our territory to attack border guards - with the help of heavily subsidised ngos - and with the full complicity, if not encouragement, of socialist and 'republican' meps who are thus seeking to reduce the number of expulsions to almost zero. in france, the socialist prime minister has offered public opinion firm gestures on security and immigration, while the republicans, for their part, pretend to be alarmed at mass immigration, a real danger to the well-being of the peoples of europe. in short, once again the masks are falling in brussels and only the patriotic members of parliament had the audacity and the constancy of their convictions to oppose this scandalous resolution.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption on 23 november of a resolution allowing migrants to lodge complaints more easily against border guards, roberta metsola of the epp and ska keller of the greens are submitting to the european parliament a new resolution in favour of illegal immigrants. the commission is calling on frontex to facilitate the filing of complaints in favour of illegal migrants in the eu in the event of a violation of their rights. the text also provides that third parties such as ngos or other community associations, heavily subsidised at taxpayers' expense, may bring complaints on behalf of illegal migrants. the report also calls for a communication campaign on the procedures they can take in the event of a breach of their fundamental rights. the single objective of this proposal is to significantly reduce the number of evictions in order to meet the needs of multinationals for cheap labour estimated by the commission at 3 million illegal migrants by 2017. we are absolutely opposed to this scandalous text. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report supports the european ombudsman's recommendation that frontex establish a mechanism for handling individual complaints concerning fundamental rights violations during its operations. it recommends that people who believe they have been harmed by border guards wearing frontex badges should have the right to lodge a complaint. i think that this report is in line with the objectives of the epp group, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. with this vote, the european parliament wanted to support the recommendation made by the european ombudsman that frontex establish an individual complaint handling mechanism to deal with allegations of fundamental rights violations in the course of its operations. i support the establishment of such a mechanism. however, it is necessary that it does not impose a disproportionate burden on the frontex agency, which is responsible for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this report proposed to facilitate legal actions by illegal migrants against the agency supposed to protect europe's borders: frontex. this will allow migrants to challenge deportation orders that are already rarely issued and even less enforced, on the grounds that their rights as asylum seekers have been violated. while france has already paid the price for the inconsistency of the european union's unreasonable immigration policy, this one is only adding to the wound. i am opposed to uncontrolled immigration and the unthinking granting of all kinds of rights to illegal immigrants, and because i am concerned about the safety of my fellow citizens, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it gives migrants rights which are unacceptable in the light of the security of the european peoples.
in writing. ‒ parliament supported the european ombudsman's approach to ensure that individual, non-anonymous complaints can be made to the frontex fundamental rights officer when there is an allegation of a violation of fundamental rights during an operation. the difficulty today is that frontex is made up of agents attached to their member state. until now, it was impossible for a person who was the victim of abuse to lodge a complaint against a border guard acting on behalf of frontex and for the agency to take disciplinary action against the officer concerned. from now on, it will be possible for frontex to register complaints, provided they are lodged in person and not by a third party, and to forward them to the authorities of the member states to which the officer responsible for the investigation will be responsible. it is really a question of restoring legality where it did not exist before. i would, however, like to see this mechanism as closely controlled as possible so that the system is not hijacked by malicious actors who would seek to disrupt the missions of the frontex agents, whose dedication and work in extremely difficult conditions i commend.
in writing. ‒ in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks that plunged paris into a bloodbath, the civil liberties and petitions committees, meeting under an accelerated procedure, voted a resolution on frontex to facilitate complaints by migrants against border guards. this resolution provides that frontex should facilitate complaints from migrants about possible violations of their rights, even though they are present on our territory illegally. this procedure also allows third parties, such as heavily subsidised ngos, to lodge complaints on behalf of migrants. meps (including socialists and republicans) are also planning an information campaign for migrants to make sure they use this resource... all of this, of course, has one goal: to reduce the number of evictions even further, which is already almost zero. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues roberta metsola and ska keller on the report of the european ombudsman on frontex. the text supports the establishment of a mechanism for handling complaints from individuals about violations of fundamental rights during frontex operations. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it aims to facilitate the complaints of migrants against frontex agents. migrants will be advised by ngos to file systematic appeals to save time and stay in europe. this is a new immigration vacuum pump being implemented.
in writing. - i voted against this report. this aberrant resolution is intended to facilitate complaints by migrants about violations of their rights, even when they arrive in our territories in an irregular situation! worse, the resolution provides that third parties, such as heavily subsidized ngos, can file these complaints on behalf of migrants, all of which, of course, is accompanied by information campaigns for migrants. the obvious aim of this action is to reduce the number of evictions, which is already almost zero, further and further. only a few days after the deadly attacks in paris which demonstrated the dangers of this immigration, we can only strongly oppose such a measure.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman carried out an inquiry into the european agency for external border control, frontex, with a view to enforcing its human rights record. it proposed, in particular, the establishment of an internal complaints mechanism to collect all the complaints of migrants that could be addressed either to the agency or to the member state depending on the staff present at the border. frontex refused, considering that it is not in its mandate, but the competence of the member states to receive complaints about their staff. the problem is that it is refusing to improve its system of complaint-handling for its own community staff. the report of the parliament defends this internal mechanism within frontex and thereby legitimises its brutal role. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ a resolution on frontex, voted a few days after the paris attacks, makes it easier for migrants to complain against border guards in the event of possible violations of their rights, while they themselves are present on our territories illegally. this procedure also provides for third parties, such as ngos, to be able to lodge complaints on behalf of migrants. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one. i therefore oppose this report.
in writing. ‒ the civil liberties and petitions committees met on 23 november in an accelerated procedure to vote on a most outrageous resolution on frontex (the european border management agency) by 62 votes to 11. this resolution facilitates the ability of migrants, present on our territory illegally, to complain to the border guards in case of possible violations of their rights! in addition, the resolution provides that third parties, such as ngos subsidised by public funds, may lodge complaints on behalf of migrants and that an information campaign be carried out with them to inform them of this remedy. this resolution, which we strongly oppose, is part of the suicidal logic of our leaders who want to bring millions of migrants into our territory and give them as many rights as possible. and it is interesting to note that despite the recent attacks, reality has failed to shake the so-called humanistic madness of the republicans and the socialists.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which approves the establishment within frontex of a mechanism for handling individual complaints relating to allegations of breaches of fundamental rights in the course of its operations. article 26a of the agency's rules of procedure provides for the implementation of a fundamental rights strategy, the creation of a consultative forum and the appointment of a fundamental rights officer. this report recommends that this officer be in charge of handling individual complaints. the aim is to put an end to the legal uncertainty surrounding cooperation operations between frontex and the competent authorities of the partner countries in the management of the migration crisis.
in writing. i supported this report which aims to support the european ombudsman in her efforts to amend the functioning of the frontex agency to include in its rules the possibility for its staff to lodge complaints for human rights violations. the report also reveals a number of anomalies in the functioning of the agency, notably a legal vacuum surrounding the status of staff and the lack of transparency in the use of eu funds allocated to frontex. these anomalies need to be corrected in view of the major role of the agency in the management of the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is balanced and relevant, thanks in particular to the work of the epp. we have succeeded in removing unnecessary references which were intended by certain political groups. the message from frontex is clear.
in writing. ‒ at a time when member states are putting more emphasis on external border control, it is all the more important to have the resources to consolidate the rights of migrants and asylum seekers. the socialists and democrats fully support the contents of this report and the recommendations of the european ombudsman. it is essential that frontex has an individual mechanism for handling complaints about fundamental rights. this mechanism should also apply to the working agreements signed by the agency with certain third countries, which allow, in particular, the organisation of joint return operations. these texts are not covered by international law. they therefore do not require both parties to respect the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers. moreover, parliament does not know how they are implemented on a daily basis. the complaints mechanism will provide greater transparency in the face of possible violations of fundamental rights that would otherwise go undetected, unreported and unresolved. this will be a first step towards ensuring that the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers are respected by frontex at the eu's borders and beyond.
in writing. ‒ in this report, which i voted for, we recall the importance of ensuring that frontex respects the fundamental rights and the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. the agency has already started efforts to this end. however, there are still areas of shadow. the effective handling of individual complaints should be encouraged when allegations of fundamental rights violations by border guards wearing the frontex badge are detected during the course of frontex operations. the office of the entitlement officer should play a leading role in this mechanism. for guest officers, for whom frontex cannot take disciplinary action, we recommend that the fundamental rights officer's office should forward complaints through a referral system to the national competent authority. the fundamental rights officer must also have the necessary resources to deal with complaints in the best possible way. finally, i would point out that our assembly relied on the recommendations of the european ombudsman in determining its position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the european ombudsman's recommendation that the european union's external border management agency, frontex, establish an individual complaint handling mechanism to deal with allegations of fundamental rights violations in the course of its operations. in view of the refugee crisis and the growing number of humanitarian and legal challenges facing frontex, it is necessary, as requested by the european ombudsman, for the european agency to put this mechanism in place. the report makes a number of proposals to make such a mechanism viable and possible. the european union must ensure control of its external borders and strengthen cooperation between member states.
in writing. ‒ a few days after the paris attacks on 23 november, the committee on civil liberties and the committee on petitions, meeting under an accelerated procedure, voted a resolution on frontex to facilitate complaints by migrants against border guards. this resolution provides that frontex, the european border management agency, facilitates complaints from migrants about possible violations of their rights, even though they are themselves present on our territory illegally. this procedure also allows third parties, such as heavily subsidised ngos, to lodge complaints on behalf of migrants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. all of this, of course, has one goal: to reduce the number of evictions even further, which is already almost zero. it seems important to monitor the votes of the socialists and republicans who have recently shown their firmness on immigration and security. i am therefore logically opposed to the adoption of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to tackle pollution and noise in cities. no one is against it. however, it is surprising that this kind of problem can be tackled by the european institutions with large reinforcements of urban mobility observatories, commission action agendas or 'european mobility weeks', or concepts such as the 'sharable city'. and then there are the myriad expensive programs and "green growth" strategies! all this is wind and a lot of waste. the report is obviously intended to pave the way for a supranational governance to regulate the behaviour of individuals and to punish 'ecologically deviant behaviour'. the text thus promotes measures such as 'polluter pays' or the obligation to introduce speed limits of less than 30 km/h in urban areas. so i logically voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, where once again meps are using good pretexts to create bad policies to the detriment of the people and the member states. the delli report on sustainable urban mobility, for example, lays the foundations for an urban policy driven by the european commission, rather than a management by municipalities more in tune with the needs of their cities and their inhabitants. urban mobility plans will have to be subject to the timetables and objectives of the european commission. in addition to this disregard for the principle of subsidiarity, the objectives set by the report, if well-intentioned, will be achieved at the expense of the most modest households, which may not always be able to afford to invest in a vehicle with the latest standards or to buy a home close to their place of work. the 'polluter pays' principle is thus gradually gaining ground, ignoring social and economic realities. finally, all the new measures proposed represent an excessive cost which will not solve the real problems facing municipalities.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to tackle air and noise pollution in city centres. on this principle, no one can object. the report does not, however, give us a clear indication of the means by which this objective can be achieved. unlike the rapporteur, we do not believe that the european institutions are best placed to reduce the level of pollution in the agglomerations. supranational ecological governance would be bureaucratic and therefore counterproductive. the commission uses such reports to give itself additional powers to impose outrageous measures on member states and local authorities, such as the requirement to drive at less than 30 km/h in urban areas or the principle of alternating traffic. we believe that this responsibility lies solely with the national authorities and local authorities, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to promote a new mode of urban mobility by mobilising eu financial instruments to develop and maintain urban transport infrastructure. the main idea is to reserve part of the european funds such as the erdf, the cohesion fund, or horizon 2020 and its european fund for strategic investments (efsi), for sustainable urban mobility projects. in support of this objective, however, we have worked with my colleagues in the epp group to rebalance the approach of the rapporteur, whose initial proposals were considered unrealistic, particularly as regards the use of the car. i opposed several paragraphs in the vote on car-free sundays, on drastic reductions in conventional fuel vehicles in cities or on the use of part of the toll revenue to improve urban mobility. such decisions are the responsibility of the member states or local authorities, but should not be taken at european level, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. nevertheless, considering that improving urban mobility through more varied and environmentally friendly modes of transport is a key challenge for our cities, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. i supported this own-initiative report on sustainable urban mobility as part of the fight against global warming. a more sustainable and intelligent management of the mobility of people and goods in europe is essential to improving the quality of life of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ in a context of urban densification on the one hand and the need to connect all territories to each other on the other, i voted in favour of this resolution, which promotes smooth urban mobility based on the development of reliable, smart, greenhouse gas-saving and easily accessible public transport. as a former regional president, i have long advocated an integrated approach to mobility that limits the use of private transport solutions and reduces air pollution, noise, accidents, congestion, etc. intermodality must therefore be organised. urban planning must accompany and anticipate new shared uses. the prices should be incentive and take account of the different constraints of the day (courses, school pickup, etc.). as president of the intergroup on public services, i draw attention to the need to include all the populations in this dynamic, those on the periphery of the cities, but also those in the countryside, who often have no other choice but to take their own vehicle or, failing to have one, to be placed under house arrest and deprived of mobility, which is known to be one of the factors of involvement in the city.
in writing. ‒ the report aimed to promote the reduction of noise, pollution and congestion in cities. while the objective is certainly commendable, the methods proposed to remedy it are far from convincing. the report proposes, for example, 'european mobility weeks' or 'sharable cities'. apart from the utterly utopian and vague nature of these proposals, the report seeks above all to promote supranational ecological governance. while the peoples of europe are all yearning more and more for a return to sovereignty, europe is blatantly flouting the principle of subsidiarity. the re-emergence of pleasant, healthy and less congested city centres is due to the development of small local businesses and short-distance transport. the report proposes even more european union without stating that it is ineffective in the areas it deals with. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it is in favour of supranational ecological governance.
in writing. ‒ this text is well-intentioned (combating urban pollution). however, it is questionable whether the european institutions are best placed to address the problems raised. the principle of subsidiarity is at stake: anything that is not the exclusive competence of the union can only come to the union if its institutions are better placed to know about a matter. however, it is the municipalities that are best placed to tackle these problems. the unspoken aim of such a text is to pave the way for supranational ecological governance. the commission wants to increase its powers and impose inconsistent measures which will weigh heavily on the low-income households who cannot afford, for example, to buy a vehicle with the latest standards. in addition, municipalities will be required to introduce speed limits of 30 km/h in urban areas, as will alternating traffic. my colleagues from the national front in the committee called for the principle of subsidiarity to be fully respected and pointed out that improving the flow of traffic requires saving small shops in the city centre and returning to short circuits. i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague karima delli on sustainable urban mobility. i believe that a balance must be struck between the social, environmental and economic impacts of transport and between meeting the needs of present and future generations. the rapporteur's initial approach was not acceptable because of proposals which were sometimes unrealistic and demagogic, but the epp negotiators were able to reach balanced compromises. i welcome the fact that this text was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that improving the flow of traffic in cities should remain the responsibility of municipalities and public bodies for inter-municipal cooperation. the union is really getting involved in everything, the principle of subsidiarity is no longer a reality!
in writing. - i voted against this report. this text is totally contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and intolerably increases the prerogatives of the european commission. the european union is not in the best position to combat pollution and noise in the city centres, much to the displeasure of brussels. worse, the inappropriate measures it suggests will affect the modest households who cannot afford either a car that meets the latest standards or a house close to their place of work. as is often the case, the union is working outside its powers, tackling the wrong people with the wrong methods.
in writing. ‒ nearly 82% of eu citizens will live in urban areas by 2050. urban transport accounts for 25% of all co2 emissions and is the only sector in which greenhouse gas emissions have been steadily increasing since 1990. the report aims to reverse this trend. to do this, he proposes to rely on "territorial planning", but without calling into question urban sprawl. it lists "low-emission" modes of transport to be developed electric traction or alternative fuels but does not set a target to be achieved. the report then lists anecdotal measures to "promote the provision of digital services in public transport and railway stations" while "also taking into account the linguistic needs of tourists". all this without condemning the use of fossil fuels, which are directly responsible for the 400 000 premature deaths linked to fine particulates. in short, it is a vague text, certainly well-intentioned, but totally ineffective in this matter. i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ the objectives of combating pollution, noise in city centres and reducing congestion are commendable, but the means proposed in this report (action agendas, the urban mobility observatory, the concept of a 'shared city', green growth strategies) appear inadequate. furthermore, the european institutions do not seem to be the most appropriate level to respond to these concrete problems facing municipalities. so, in view of the inappropriate measures supported by the commission and the non-respect of the principle of subsidiarity, i am voting against this report.
in writing. this report presents ways to combat pollution and noise in city centres, as well as solutions to reduce traffic congestion. we agree that tackling these problems is a priority in the development of urban areas. however, we believe that the european institutions do not have the competence to respond to these problems, firstly because of the principle of subsidiarity, and above all because the obvious objective of this text is supranational ecological governance. the commission would be given new powers and could thus impose technocratic measures which, once again, would only impact the middle classes, already affected by the crisis and austerity. our position in order to make the traffic flowing in the city centres smoother is first of all to preserve small shops and to recreate short circuits in line with cultural and local specificities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on sustainable urban mobility. the text recommends that the european union contribute, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, to the development of an integrated and long-term approach to urban mobility aimed at reducing pollution, congestion and accidents in urban traffic. the aim is to establish better coordination between the european union, which is responsible for the common urban policy, and local and regional authorities, which are responsible for urban transport management. the report recalls that it is estimated that by 2050 almost 82% of eu citizens will live in urban areas. this strong urban growth implies ensuring efficient transport planning to improve the quality of life of european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a european roadmap for the energy transition in urban public transport. given that 80% of europeans will be urban in 2050, it is necessary to develop solutions other than the 'all-roader', ensuring that these solutions are sustainable and environmentally friendly. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud.
in writing. ‒ i approved this report to send a clear message to our fellow citizens. i am, however, opposed to the ideological use that has been made of it throughout the negotiations. the green group is characterized by a very unconstructive attitude and a strong idealization of a completely green society. i am also opposed to the idea of wanting to remove diesel from our cars, or simply cars from our cities... it makes no sense until we have the miracle solution for urban transport. i did a lot of research when i was assigned to the cars2020 report. moreover, this myth of public transport is a deception: some people cannot do without the car as a means of transport (transport operators, residents of residential areas, vrp, etc.). finally, our industry is a world leader in diesel technology, and france is at the forefront. however, i would like to remind you that i am in favour of tests in real conditions, as i said in cars2020.
in writing. ‒ on the occasion of the cop 21, which is bringing together world leaders in a (very) grand fashion these days, i reiterate the urgent need to reduce the impact of transport on emissions of both greenhouse gases and fine particulate matter. i voted in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility, which promotes a wide range of solutions combining competitiveness and sobriety to achieve these objectives. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the aim is to make traffic safer, smoother and more environmentally friendly in congested areas, where the vast majority of citizens now live in cities. in general, i support any initiative to promote and develop the emergence of the sharing economy in urban mobility, such as car-sharing and carpooling, which have a high potential for reducing pollution and urban traffic nuisance.
in writing. ‒ by 2050, more than 80% of eu citizens will live in urban areas. in this context, action is needed to promote sustainable urban mobility, especially as it can bring environmental, health, energy, safety, urban planning, infrastructure, quality of life and innovation benefits. smart mobility involves supporting research into new technologies, including the development of low-emission transport modes, as well as new business models, including those based on the sharing economy. all levels of public policy and all actors will have to find ways to meet the needs of our cities and the citizens who live in them. the union must contribute to this, in particular through its programmes and financing, but also through other measures which i believe are appropriate. that is why i voted for this one.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on sustainable urban mobility. the congestion of european urban and peri-urban areas makes it necessary to promote a new form of mobility. this is to meet the ever-increasing demand for mobility while assessing the environmental, social and economic impacts. the report calls on member states and local authorities to continue and intensify their efforts to implement a new model of urban mobility. i supported this text, which makes proposals for the efficient use of the various european funds to achieve the necessary quality investments. the aim is to ensure the development and maintenance of urban transport infrastructure. the report suggests that part of the erdf, the cohesion fund, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the horizon 2020 programmes should be earmarked for financing sustainable urban mobility projects. the union must continue its commitment to sustainable urban mobility in order to achieve its objectives, in particular those related to the circular economy as a driver of job creation.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to pave the way for supranational ecological governance. karima delli made no secret of this when she explained in an interview: "the first step is that before the end of 2016, each member state must deliver what is called a national plan for sustainable urban mobility". the commission will therefore gradually increase its powers and be able to impose aberrant measures affecting modest households who cannot afford to buy a vehicle of the latest standards or to buy a house close to their place of work. thus the "polluter pays" idea is making its way. the obligation for municipalities to introduce speed limits of 30 km/h in the city is also being prepared, as is alternating traffic. we must therefore oppose a text which deliberately denies the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, i would like to say that the report by mr marek gróbarczyk, who is also a friend, has many positive elements, but also a number of negative elements. it puts the states at the centre of the strategy. i think that you can only really achieve energy resilience if you build on the links that are the states. without the states, no energy policy is possible. in my opinion, mr gróbarczyk is wrong to abandon sustainable development because we currently have - as my colleague mr turmes has pointed out - energy prices which allow new energy sources to be competitive. it is also wrong not to rely on russia and, on the contrary, to want to circumvent it. i wonder if it is more reliable to rely on turkey, which would allow us to bypass russia, knowing that it is a partner that finances terrorism and is against our civilizations. another problem is that it gives too much power to the commission. the commission is a liberal ideologue and therefore unable to ensure energy security, since its price approach does not support the market in the long term. this liberal view of prices leads to a total contradiction because you are asking for both lower prices and additional investments. the question arises how we are going to finance additional investments at prices that do not guarantee their profitability. the commission must not have any negotiating power. we ask the commission to stick to its role because it will soon be the commission that will be eliminated by the rejection of britain or germany, which rightly defends its food security. i therefore ask the commission to safeguard the interests of the european union and to stop pursuing a policy that is contrary to them.
mr president, our european energy market is gradually being set up. commissioner, i listened to you very carefully earlier and i understood that we were going to have a lot of work to do in 2016 on renewable energy or energy efficiency. i think there is a lot of work to be done on this and it is urgent that we do it. i shall focus on the energy market. in order for it to ensure a high security of supply, i think we really need to work on interconnections. we have, of course, existing interconnections. they must be strengthened and used to the maximum of their capacity, but this is not the only solution; nor is the only solution to be found in developing ever more infrastructure. it is important to assess each new project very rigorously, to examine its feasibility and also to take into account future developments so as not to hinder potentially promising projects. it is also important that we have cost-benefit analyses to compare the different projects. the second solution is to ensure that investors benefit from a favourable framework for sustainable investment and more long-term contracts in the electricity market in order to secure and encourage investments, especially in renewable energy, which have very high fixed costs. this will also benefit users, especially in electricity-intensive sectors, which are increasingly demanding predictability. this will create a dynamic energy trading space for the benefit of energy producers, network operators and consumers alike.
that concludes the debate. written declarations (rule 162)
the agenda calls for the debate on the motion for a resolution by mr bart staes, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: authorisation of genetically modified maize nk603xt25 (2015/3019(rsp)) (b8-1365/2015)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first source of legislation is now a council of heads of state or government which is unable to agree. as a result, no decision is made. on the other hand, the second source of legislation, namely us, the european parliament, has today very clearly rejected, in the committee on the environment, the validation of this product which is extremely dangerous, particularly because of its resistance to chemicals, which are themselves very dangerous. the commission, which comes from parliament and the council, decides on its own what to do, whereas the source of democratic legitimacy that is ours, parliament, has refused. there is an incredible democratic denial here, which shows, madam president, that the procedures which were adopted earlier are now suffering from a democratic deficit. so you must realise that if we want a europe in which the citizens have confidence, you must absolutely reconsider your decision and make sure that we are listened to.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr sven schulze, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility (2015/2042 (ini) (a8-0331/2015)).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would first like to welcome mr dijsselbloem to the house. i think it's important that we have these debates, which are both democratic, cross-border and public. mr dijsselbloem, you are a regular member of the econ committee, and we are grateful to you for that, but it is even better that you are also a member of the plenary. i thank mr juncker and mr dombrovskis for being here too. you have rightly mentioned the unemployment levels, which i think should be the focus of all our discussions on the future of economic and monetary union. i would also like to emphasize one point: you spoke of legitimacy and paid tribute to the economic dialogue. so i'm going to be totally immodest for once. having been at the origin of the introduction of the economic dialogue in the six-pack, i would say that this encourages me because at the time - colleagues here, like elisa ferreira, and others who are no longer here will certainly remember - the member states absolutely did not want it. the idea that we could introduce this horrible thing of a public debate between the community institutions, the states and parliament, was not wanted. so you see, when you're faced with opposition, it's sometimes worth the effort to overcome it because afterwards, you're happy to have innovated. the report by the five presidents came at the right time, because at the time it was presented, we were still in a very difficult period of the crisis in greece. i think, however, that we should not be too self-centered. outside the european sphere, people hardly know that there is a report by the five presidents; and they don't know that there was one of the four presidents. that's better because they'd be wondering if the next one is the six presidents. we have, in the report of the five chairmen, the announcement of the creation of a working party. i think that all this is a little tiring to the public and that we should do more. as mr rosati said very well earlier, the real question is whether we are doing everything to ensure that economic and monetary union continues, thrives, creates jobs and creates competitiveness. from that point of view and it's not a reproach; i just want to stress the effort we have to make collectively. we cannot go and speak in front of the opinion of the "capital markets union". people don't know what it is, mr president! call it a "funding union" or an "innovation union"; it's the end that counts, not the instrument. i would like to make one final point on one question. you said that this parliament is the eurozone parliament, the euro parliament. yes, but why? because in the current institutional framework - as established by the treaties - there is a currency for the whole of the european union, with a parliament in which meps from all countries take decisions. but if we are moving towards a multi-currency union, what should we do? would it be legitimate to continue to have a parliament that votes for people who tell us that they do not want to be part of the same system any more? i would also say to my colleagues that many people are critical of europe and the euro, but that their country is doing well because there are transfers of up to 4% of their own country's gdp. in conclusion, mr president, i would simply say that we must be careful about illegal passengers. this parliament is the parliament of the euro zone, and it intends to remain so as long as everyone wants to be part of the common project. but it is likely that we will have to clarify things in the months and years to come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the euro crisis, you have urgently imposed legislation on banking union on europeans, including the single resolution mechanism (srm) and the bail-in, in order to bail out the capital of banks in difficulty, thus rejecting the principle of nationalisation, even temporary, by a state. your project was prescient as nine banks have already failed in 2015 in europe, including four regional banks in italy. what is the result? in italy, with your miraculous measures to resolve bank failures, over 100,000 small shareholders and customers lost everything, as in cyprus in 2013. the savers were totally unaware of this risk of loss. the deposit guarantee of €100,000 is completely illusory, because empress merkel does not want it. your banking union is starting to look like a saver's euthanasia that's probably going to end in a banking panic. it's already started! the proof: in the homeland of mr draghi - absent today - a ruined pensioner committed suicide last week. from 1 january 2016, to save the single currency, citizens will have to pay the price of irresponsible business bankers. in order to avoid being guilty of this disaster, are the troika presidents prepared to withdraw this totalitarian legislation from the banking union?
mr president, three out of five presidents to speak on the recommendation for the euro zone is a good step. but we must go back to the basics, because the reality of how the euro area works is that we have negative interdependencies and what is definitely missing is the reality of this solidarity. today, even germany, in dealing with the influx of refugees it is facing, considers it an essential element of the functioning of the european union. the commission keeps saying that the european parliament must be involved in the process, that we need parliament if the eurozone is to function democratically. i note that jean-claude juncker has left us and that the package he put on the table on 21 october leaves no room for the european parliament, while he sets up a competitiveness council which will have to decide on structural reforms in the member states, a fiscal council which will lead the analysis that the commission will make of the budget of the member states. it seems to me that there was a place for the european parliament in all this. secondly, the recommendation on the euro area, which we are discussing today, is certainly an element, but we must make it a tool for debating economic policy. is a neutral fiscal stance satisfactory? i note that this recommendation mentions the existence of a current account surplus. so what are we doing about it, at a time when even the imf is worried about the prospect of deflation being exported by the euro zone on a global scale? this is the economic policy debate that this recommendation from the euro area should allow. mr dijsselbloem, i hear you when you say that we need simultaneous progress, but when you describe your strategy, i do not have the impression that this is exactly what you are thinking, since you tell us that we must first mobilise private capital by launching this famous capital markets union and completing this banking union. it seems to us that this cannot work without the so-called budgetary capacity that we so badly need because interest rates are at zero, because the incentive for the private sector to invest, in the current context, does not exist, and you will not have a strong capital union if you do not have a euro area budget behind you. that is the reality of the debate. but history teaches us that the eurozone project is being destroyed by small steps. he got a little wind of the greek case. it is now essential to put all the cards on the table to ensure the viability and sustainability of the euro at the service of our citizens and thus first of all investment and employment. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr van dalen always says the same thing and never looks at what is happening in france! france, under the leadership of françois hollande, has undertaken more structural reforms than any previous government. i'd like to continue talking to you, but you're watching what's happening in my country.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr ferber, your theory of the runoff does not work and i find that germany's surpluses are also not compatible with the rules we have for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances. you always talk about rules, but what do you think of the economic and financial committee which has just, in the utmost secrecy, reinterpreted the communication on flexibility, when this parliament has not had to debate it? i would also like to hear mr dijsselbloem's opinion on this new interpretation of the communication.
president of the eurogroup.– mr president, in my final contribution, i would just like to pick up on a couple of points that the members have made. first of all, i think building the monetary union – and the same goes for the banking union – is about solidarity and organising it in our social economic system. therefore it is about reducing risks, becoming more resilient, becoming stronger and more flexible, and, at the same time, gradually sharing risks. that is the only way forward. that is the way we have built the banking union and must complete it, and that is the way we must strengthen the monetary union. ms de lange asked me whether it was not first about reducing risk and then sharing risks. i think that is too simple. we are at the moment in a phase of building up the banking union. as of 1 january 2016, new rules will apply. we are starting to build up the resolution fund, which will be complete in eight years’ time, and gradually we will share the risks inside the resolution framework. so it will go hand in hand. yes, we will start sharing risk in the banking union. we already do now, and in the coming eight years we will continue to do so until it is a fully common system. it is about the two approaches at the same time, and that is the only way to get it done – politically as well. ms ferreira was absolutely right when she said that you cannot leave economic policy up to the ecb. the ecb is already far beyond what can reasonably be expected from monetary policy with a very accommodative stance. so it is now up to politicians at national and european level. it is for both national and european levels to take their responsibilities, and that is also about applying what has been agreed. how can you build a common system and how can you build a union if you cannot apply the rules, and if you will not stick to the rules and the agreements that have been reached? ms ferreira also asked me about the fiscal stance for the eurozone. at the moment a neutral stance for the eurozone as a whole is a reasonable approach, but there are big differences between countries. some can do more, but there are limitations: there are few countries that actually have a fiscal surplus at the moment and could invest more. so there will be a different approach at national level in the fiscal stance and, overall, in the eurozone a neutral stance is, at this time, the right position to take. for the future we need to have that debate about the fiscal capacity. we have put it in the second phase of the five presidents’ report, but there is no reason why we should not debate it now, because there are many different ideas of what a fiscal capacity could mean. some see it as a common backstop for our monetary union, some see it as an investment instrument, and some see it as a social security funding system. these are very different approaches. let us debate that, because only if you have an agreement on the design of it do you know what size it has to have. then you have to find agreement on where the funding is to come from. these are big questions that will touch upon our labour market policy, on our social security system and possibly even our pension systems. it depends very much on how you design this fiscal capacity, and there is no agreement as yet on what their instrument should look like. so let us do the work on that and let us not wait until 2017. many of you have spoken about the responsibilities of member states and i fully agree. when you talk about structural reforms, part of it – a major part, i would say – is national responsibility and will probably be so for a very long time. the issues vary from one country to another, yet some are very much the same in all of our eurozone countries. the tax pressure on labour is much too high, forcing labour out of our economy. let us reverse that process. we are working on that in the eurozone, and many countries are taking measures there. we need further work on the pension system to make it sustainable, also in greece. pensions systems need to be sustainable if we want to insure our pensioners, also in the future. part of the structural reforms will also have to come from the european side. we talked about the capital markets union. let me reassure mr woolfe that i do not dine with goldman sachs and, if i do dine with them, i certainly do not take their instructions. but i do believe that the capital markets union is a way to open up financing needs to create more financing for our companies. we are still much too dependent on the banking system throughout europe. let us diversify that, become more resilient and strengthen economic recovery. i have to react to mr eickhout who always, when i meet him in brussels or here in strasbourg, addresses me as a dutch minister. his point is that i say different things in the national parliament than i do in the european parliament. i never do that. i always stress both the importance of this european dialogue and that of the national parliament. i strongly disagree with him that in national parliaments there is no serious debate about the european economy or european economic governance. he should come to the dutch parliament to participate in those debates. they are in depth, broad and serious, and i have to go to my parliament at least twice a month to discuss those issues. finally, mrs berès asked me about flexibility in the pact. over the course of the crisis, the pact has proven to be flexible. a number of countries have been given more time to deal with their fiscal deficits. fiscal targets have been adjusted over and over again. the real question is whether we can, in time, build fiscal buffers into our budgets again. that is my greatest concern: that we still have high sovereign debts, many countries still have high deficits, even though a lot of work has been done, and if a new economic setback were to occur, we do not have enough buffer capacity. on the flexibility that the commission has proposed: i strongly agree with that kind of flexibility, but it should be used well. the commission should take the requests for flexibility of the member states seriously and make sure that the credibility of the pact is not damaged. there is a balance between the flexibility in the pact and the credibility of the pact. finally, we have a lot of work to do in the short term. so let us have a debate about long-term monetary union governance, let us start that debate now, but let us also work on the very short—term measures we can take. i have already mentioned the banking union, competitiveness, structural reforms and the capital markets union, etc. there is work to be done.
mr president, the euro area is in danger. we must admit that its architecture is banking, since it has a monetary pillar based on the european central bank, which is essentially federal, but it is still without the indispensable budgetary and political pillar. the adjustments made since 2012 are progress, but the euro area still lacks an economic policy. it adds up national policies, framed by the stability and growth pact, a pact regularly violated by many countries and which is nothing more than a regulation on co-ownership of the euro. the euro area unlike the united states of america cannot practice the policy mix, i.e. support for growth and employment. it is urgent to equip it with the appropriate institutions so that it can finally be steered and governed: appointment of a full-time minister of finance whose function is incompatible with the office of minister in one of the euro area member states, availability and conflict of interest issues; the establishment of a treasury directorate-general to coordinate the management of government borrowing, strengthen the banking union, stabilise financial markets and guarantee deposits; the establishment of a euro area budget to neutralise systemic shocks and to encourage, by means of a bonus, structural reforms and investment; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and as a corollary, i think it is essential to place this new governance under the democratic control of a committee with representatives of the european parliament and representatives of the national chambers. any sharing of sovereignty requires democratic legitimacy. so, mr president, i urge you to be bold and courageous. i believe in the benefits of the euro, which means that we urgently need to remedy the fragility of the euro area.
mr president, i will speak anyway, but i am a little surprised that neither the president of the commission nor the president of the eurogroup responsible is here. so, who are we talking to, anyway? i would like to remind you that in 2012, before i was elected by that abominable mrs le pen, did we not propose a stimulus programme based on the central bank with the large public banks, using quantitative easing to invest in the real economy, in transport and energy infrastructure, in smes, in export development. this plan was blocked because of the german initiative. as long as there are no transfers to invest and balance the levels of the economy in a single area, the euro is doomed. yet you continue to do so. you are responsible for the failure of the euro, not us.
madam president, once again we are being offered little measures and wishes to improve the functioning of the euro area. but no further involvement of the european parliament will change that. no technocratic mechanism, camouflaged under increasingly light democratic umbrellas, can hide the reality: the euro is a total failure. it is a failure because it is based, from the beginning, on false principles. forcing monetary union between the countries of europe has not brought them together and will never bring them together. on the contrary, economies are becoming more and more divergent, european countries outside the euro are doing much better. the poor are getting poorer, the rich are getting richer, tensions are rising, people are rising against each other. they are being asked to make unsustainable sacrifices to save a currency, instead of putting the economy at their service. the greeks have been humiliated and are humiliated more and more every day. other peoples will soon be. many nobel prize winners and renowned economists have said it, and reality proves it in a relentless way: we must abandon this aberrant golden calf, we must stop sacrificing people to save the euro and instead sacrifice the euro to save people.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, the economic crisis of 2008 has shown two things: first, that our economic and monetary union, despite the displeasure of some, was an effective tool and shield for our national economies; the second is that we must, of course, go further in this union and the convergences it requires if we are to withstand the future shocks that are bound to come. our economic and monetary union is incomplete and certainly too fragile. focusing on the financial stability that is so necessary, it has neglected growth, which is also so necessary for economic recovery. i welcome the initiative of president juncker, who, in his state of the union address, has placed this issue at the heart of his priorities. i also welcome the fact that the democratic framework within which these reforms must take place has been taken into account, with the establishment of national competitiveness councils and a european budgetary committee. it is wise not to repeat the mistakes we have sometimes made in order to go faster, by not involving the europeans and their representatives enough in decision-making. these two bodies, like the european semester, will have to make economic competitiveness and growth a priority in order to create sustainable jobs and strengthen our economic and monetary area, that is to say, to strike the right economic and political balance between reducing member states' deficits and implementing recovery policies. in conclusion, i would like to address a short message to all those who are sceptical or opposed to such a strengthened union: what would be the weight of any european country with a population of no more than 80 million in relation to the other economic powers? how can we weigh and assert our positions without uniting on a continental scale? the idea of national isolation is dangerous not only for our economies but also for our democracies. political courage is about adapting to and anticipating a world which is constantly changing, not about denying it.
in writing. ‒ this report provides for the adoption of a council decision approving, on behalf of the european union, the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office i voted against this report because i am opposed to the existence of this office which takes away the powers of the states in matters of asylum and immigration. the member states must be able to manage these matters themselves, particularly in the present context.
in writing. ‒ this report asks the council to adopt a decision on behalf of the european union approving the arrangement between the swiss confederation and the european union on the modalities of switzerland's participation in the european asylum support office. we are against the existence of this office. we want to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in matters of immigration and asylum. however, switzerland is an ally, particularly in these matters. is it appropriate, then, to refuse his request to join this office? i have chosen to vote in favour of this approval.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it concludes an agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. it seems to me natural for switzerland, which is a country within europe, and for the european union to strengthen our cooperation on asylum. i would like to reiterate my personal conviction in favour of a european right of asylum.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this little "arrangement" demanded by bureaucrats who want to impose their immigration whims at any cost. migration policy must remain a matter for our respective states: this is all the more necessary as the commission wants to open the external borders of the european union even more to the uninterrupted flows of so-called refugees.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns an arrangement with the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. the fn is fundamentally opposed to this office because we believe that only the member states are competent in matters of asylum and immigration and that these policies contribute to the loss of sovereignty of the states. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report invites the european council to adopt a decision approving the arrangement between the european union and switzerland on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. we are by definition opposed to this bureau which violates the sovereignty of the member states in matters of asylum and immigration. it is not for the european institutions to determine our migration policy, because this is a competence that is rightfully vested in the national authorities. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report proposes the european parliament's opinion on the conclusion by the european union of an agreement between the union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of the latter's participation in the european asylum support office. switzerland has already expressed its willingness to participate in european programmes for the relocation of asylum seekers by cooperating informally with easo. the draft decision is intended to formalise this collaboration and was postponed following the paris attacks on 13 november. i voted in favour of the objectives of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to strengthen practical cooperation between switzerland and the eu member states on matters concerning asylum schemes. the participation of switzerland as an observer member and financial contributor adds value to the activities of the european asylum support office.
in writing. ‒ this report aimed to integrate switzerland into the european asylum office. although these supra-national structures are totally illegitimate in my view, the fact remains that the swiss confederation is a friendly country. i was therefore more inclined to vote against this report which advocates the enlargement of a body which is supposed to decide on royalist policies. however, this report de facto advocates a greater role for switzerland, whose reasoned policies on asylum are largely supported by us. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because i want to deepen cooperation with switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report by my maltese colleague, roberta metsola, on the arrangement with the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. although switzerland is not a member of the european union, it is a signatory to the schengen convention and thus adheres to the principle of free movement. as a result, it is also affected by the migration crisis, being in the immediate vicinity of two countries particularly affected by the flows, germany and italy. therefore, the asylum support office allows the participation as observers of iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland, which are indirectly concerned by european decisions on asylum.
in writing. ‒ this report invites the council to adopt a decision approving, on behalf of the european union, the arrangement between the swiss confederation and the european union on the modalities of switzerland's participation in the european asylum support office. we are against the existence of the european asylum support office because we want to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in matters of immigration and asylum. however, switzerland is an ally, particularly in these matters. is it appropriate to refuse his request to participate in the european asylum support office? our group in the epp group is divided on this proposal: harald vilimsky and vicky maeijer voted against, lorenzo fontana voted for. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague roberta metsola on the recommendation on the arrangement with switzerland on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. since the country was already participating informally in the bureau's work, this text aims to clarify the scope and modalities of this collaboration. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ the national front meps voted against the draft council decision on the conclusion of the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. this vote is not directed against switzerland, a friendly country which we respect very much. the european asylum support office is part of the so-called european union acquis in the field of asylum and immigration. the common policy on asylum and immigration has failed catastrophically. this is why this competence should be returned to the member states. they must once again be able to control their borders and decide who they allow to enter the territory and under what conditions.
in writing. ‒ fn meps voted against this "arrangement" because they are against the existence of this european asylum support office. the member states should be the only ones with competence in matters of asylum and immigration.
in writing. - i voted against the motion. the european asylum support office (easo), as its name suggests, supports member states and helps them to achieve their asylum objectives. an arrangement will be made between the eu and switzerland regarding the latter's participation in the bureau. the purpose of this proposal is to enable the council to approve this arrangement on behalf of the eu. we are against the very existence of this bureau. the management of asylum and migration should be the exclusive responsibility of the member states. we are firmly opposed to the eu handling this.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this decision is to allow switzerland, which is not a member of the eu, to participate in the activities of the european asylum support office and its budget. unlike other associated states such as norway, this agreement was suspended by the european parliament following the swiss referendum in february 2014 aimed at limiting the free movement of european citizens. switzerland eventually had to abandon this measure at the risk of not being able to participate in other eu programmes, such as horizon 2020 but also erasmus. the ruling right also had no interest in ignoring the more than one million european residents and workers on its soil. the office coordinates ongoing assistance and the exchange of data and good practice on refugee reception. it therefore has a clear mandate to ensure a good reception of refugees in europe. i vote in favour of the resolution to recall that refugees and asylum seekers have internationally recognised rights and to denounce more widely that only a quarter of applications are accepted in european states.
in writing. ‒ this report invites the council to adopt a decision approving, on behalf of the european union, the arrangement between the swiss confederation and the european union on the modalities of switzerland's participation in the european asylum support office. we are against the existence of the european asylum support office because we want to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in matters of immigration and asylum. however, switzerland is an ally, particularly in these matters. is it appropriate, then, to refuse his request to participate in the european asylum support office? i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report by roberta metsola is to instruct the council to adopt a decision approving, on behalf of the eu, the conclusion of an arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. although he is against the existence of this european asylum support office because he believes that immigration and asylum policy is the exclusive competence of the member states and that the eu should not interfere in it, switzerland being a country whose democratic life and concern for sovereignty can be envied, it would be quite normal to grant his request to participate in this office. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the modalities of the swiss confederation's participation in the european asylum support office. switzerland, iceland, liechtenstein and norway may participate in the work of the support office as observer countries. i have approved the council's proposal to define the nature and extent of such participation.
in writing. ‒ the roberta metsola report asks the council to adopt a decision approving, on behalf of the eu, the conclusion of an arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. although i am opposed to the existence of this european asylum support office (because i believe that immigration and asylum policy is the exclusive competence of the member states and therefore the eu should not interfere), i consider that switzerland is an enviable country in terms of its democratic life and its concern for sovereignty and that it would be quite normal to grant its request to participate in this office. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ switzerland's support for the european asylum support office is a further step in the approach we need to take to migration policy. the influx of recent months knows no borders, and we must pool our thoughts and our tools.
in writing. ‒ this proposal provides for an invitation to the council to adopt a decision approving, on behalf of the european union, the arrangement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the modalities of its participation in the european asylum support office. i am against the existence of this bureau because the front national wants the member states to be competent in asylum and immigration matters. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement with the commonwealth of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. while the report presents the liberalisation of visas for short stays as an opportunity to boost tourism, simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs or encourage investment, i believe that at the moment it is not appropriate to conclude similar agreements. in the face of a growing terrorist threat and the european policy of mass immigration, these agreements seem inappropriate to me. indeed, even if the commonwealth of dominica is not directly a point of departure for immigration, i do not think it is appropriate to proceed with such an agreement in the current context, regardless of the country concerned.
in writing. ‒ this agreement calls for the short-stay visa exemption for persons coming from the dominican republic. the aim is to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. however, it is not appropriate to conclude such agreements, even though the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe. we are also opposed to this desire to create a world without frontiers, together with my colleagues from the national front. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which endorses the agreement with dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. since the european union refuses to control its external borders as it should and has abolished the internal borders of the schengen area, it is urgent that france regain control of its national borders... and apply its laws, especially in the field of border redirection. i am therefore opposed to such agreements on principle.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are intended to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. the report also states that the country poses no threat in terms of illegal migration, security or public order. however, it is questionable whether it is worthwhile to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the eu has lost all control over mass immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to this report, these agreements on visa exemption for short stays should boost tourism and strengthen our trade relations with the commonwealth of dominica. these new arrangements will facilitate the movement of entrepreneurs and investors, thus strengthening economic links between enterprises. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union. but at a time when western countries, and france in particular, are facing a very serious terrorist threat, it is absolutely not appropriate to conclude such agreements. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the eu-dominica agreement negotiated by the european commission to facilitate the granting of short-stay visas. it allows citizens of the european union and citizens of dominica to obtain a visa free of charge for the territory of all the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa is for all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. this short-stay visa waiver measure is an important step forward in strengthening political dialogue and economic relations between the eu member states and the commonwealth of dominica. i supported this report to facilitate travel between nationals of both sides.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel report aimed to remove the visa requirement for the commonwealth of dominica, vanuatu, trinidad and tobago, samoa, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines and the united arab emirates. these countries do not pose a risk of uncontrolled immigration or of disturbing public order. however, at a time when islamist terrorists are looking for the slightest loophole in our defence in order to attack us, i do not think it is appropriate to exempt certain countries from visas and to facilitate access to our territory in general from non-european countries. although i am in favour of closer economic ties with these countries, i cannot knowingly take the risk of allowing ill-intentioned people to take advantage of this to undermine european security. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am against visa-free travel for third countries.
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of the commonwealth of dominica, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for the nationals of this small caribbean island much more oriented towards the united states than towards france. the risk of migration is very low. however, beyond the commonwealth of dominica, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions in a hand-to-hand fashion when for some of these countries, particularly those in the western balkans, the migration and internal security risk to the member states of the european union is real. there is a regulation which lists a positive list of countries whose nationals are exempt from the short-stay visa requirement. these countries now number 42, including the united states and japan, and will soon be 61. shouldn't this list be revised in the light of international upheavals?
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms mariya gabriel, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica. the european parliament was to take a decision on the conclusions of the agreement between the union and dominica which was negotiated by the commission. the purpose was to make it easier for people to obtain visas. citizens of both sets will be exempt from visa requirements for stays of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. this exemption does not apply to persons travelling on business. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-dominica agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. according to ms gabriel's report, the country in question poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants is high, with a relatively low visa refusal rate. visa liberalisation simplifies the conditions for travel. however, we have a duty to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted against this agreement because they are hostile to the short-stay visa exception, which it endorses. visas are required for national security purposes, except for those with our trusted partners, particularly european ones.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. this is a whole series of agreements on the short-stay visa exemption with several countries. the agreement is expected to help boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations with these partners. the key to these agreements is trust: the visa refusal rate is very low because countries trust visa applicants. the rapporteur believes that the countries covered by these agreements do not represent a threat, either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security. in view of the mass immigration we are experiencing and which the eu is no longer able to manage, in view of the risks and the recent attacks in france, one can only be surprised, or even worried, by this sudden willingness to open up. maybe the timing isn't right!
in writing. ‒ on the substance of the case, i am in favour of short-stay visa exemptions to facilitate mobility and travel for citizens of both parties, in this case the member states to dominica and vice versa. i regret, however, that the french overseas departments are excluded. moreover, we cannot strengthen cooperation with that country without holding it to account for the tax haven it represents. i'm officially denouncing this whole procedure. only the commission is empowered to negotiate these agreements on behalf of the states and citizens. it informs the european parliament of the state of the negotiations only at the very end of the process. above all, these agreements are implemented even before the european parliament gives its approval or not. the eu has a role to play in this process, and the eu is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards the united arab emirates, it should be noted that 150 000 eu nationals are established there and most of them work there. about 1.6 million europeans visit the uae each year, and some 230,000 emiratis have travelled to europe, mainly for business trips and luxury tourism. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ these agreements provide for visa-free short-stay travel to the listed countries, in order to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants from these countries is high, with a historically low visa refusal rate. the rapporteur believes that the countries in question do not represent a threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. however, the question arises whether it is appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. the answer is no, hence a vote against.
in writing. ‒ this gabriel report concerns short-stay visa waiver agreements to encourage tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. this report concerns the dominican republic. the simplification of travel conditions linked to visa liberalisation is expected to facilitate investment and increase economic links between businesses. the rapporteur points out that the countries concerned do not pose any threat in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. while it is true that some of these countries already have economic links and many european citizens are settled there, it is questionable whether it is appropriate to conclude agreements on visa facilitation with countries in the middle east at a time when the eu has lost all control over mass immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica. the aim was to allow visa-free travel for european and dominican nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague, mariya gabriel, on the short-stay visa waiver under the agreement between the european union and dominica in the caribbean. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for nationals of the two parties concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption covers all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for all purposes other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel report concerns agreements on visa-free short-stay visits which are intended to encourage tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. this particular text concerns the dominican republic. the simplification of travel conditions linked to visa liberalisation is expected to facilitate investment and increase economic links between businesses. the rapporteur points out that the countries concerned do not pose any threat in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. while it is true that some of these countries already have economic links and many european citizens are settled there, it is questionable whether it is appropriate to conclude agreements on visa facilitation with so many countries at a time when the eu has lost all control over mass immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the approval of the agreement between the eu and dominica to abolish the requirement for visas for short stays, i.e. for stays of less than 90 days for all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic). it is important that european citizens can return to dominica without a visa and vice versa. this visa exemption should hopefully help to support the tourism sector in this caribbean island.
in writing. ‒ this agreement seals the visa exemption for very short stays and on the basis of reciprocity with dominica. a way to make it easier for our citizens to travel, whether it's for tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the commonwealth of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and dominican nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation would simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. however, the question arises as to whether visa-free agreements are appropriate at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. this change in visa policy is contrary to common sense. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement with vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. while the report presents the liberalisation of visas for short stays as an opportunity to boost tourism, simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs or encourage investment, i believe that at the moment it is not appropriate to conclude similar agreements. in the face of a growing terrorist threat and the european policy of mass immigration, these agreements seem inappropriate to me. indeed, even if vanuatu is not directly a point of departure for immigration, i do not think it is wise to proceed with such an agreement in the current context, regardless of the country concerned.
in writing. ‒ this agreement calls for the short-stay visa exemption for people coming from vanuatu. the aim is to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. however, it is not appropriate to conclude such agreements, even though the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe. we are also opposed to this desire to create a world without frontiers, together with my colleagues from the national front. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which endorses the agreement with vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. since the european union refuses to control its external borders as it should and has abolished the internal borders of the schengen area, it is urgent that france regain control of its national borders... and apply its laws, especially in the field of border redirection. i am therefore opposed to this type of agreement on principle.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are intended to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. the report also states that the country poses no threat in terms of illegal migration, security or public order. however, it is questionable whether it is worthwhile to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the eu has lost all control over mass immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to this report, these agreements on visa exemption for short stays should boost tourism and strengthen our trade relations with the republic of vanuatu. these new arrangements will facilitate the movement of entrepreneurs and investors, thus strengthening economic links between enterprises. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union. but at a time when western countries, and france in particular, are facing a very serious terrorist threat, it is absolutely not appropriate to conclude such agreements. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the eu-vanuatu agreement negotiated by the european commission to facilitate the granting of short-stay visas. it allows citizens of the european union and citizens of vanuatu to obtain a visa free of charge for the territory of all the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa is for all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report introducing a short-stay visa waiver between the eu member states and the republic of vanuatu. in addition to strengthening political dialogue and economic relations, this measure will have a direct positive impact on the economic costs of travel by travellers from the contracting states.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel report aimed to remove the visa requirement for the commonwealth of dominica, vanuatu, trinidad and tobago, samoa, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines and the united arab emirates. these countries do not pose a risk of uncontrolled immigration or of disturbing public order. however, at a time when islamist terrorists are looking for the slightest loophole in our defence in order to attack us, i do not think it is appropriate to exempt certain countries from visas and to facilitate access to our territory in general from non-european countries. although i am in favour of closer economic ties with these countries, i cannot knowingly take the risk of allowing ill-intentioned people to take advantage of this to undermine european security. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am against visa-free travel for third countries.
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of vanuatu, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for nationals of this small island in oceania with a christian majority. the risk of migration is very low. however, beyond vanuatu, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions in a hand-to-hand fashion when for some of these countries, particularly those in the western balkans, the migration and internal security risk to the member states of the european union is real. there is a regulation which lists a positive list of countries whose nationals are exempt from the short-stay visa requirement. these countries now number 42, including the united states and japan, and will soon be 61. shouldn't this list be revised in the light of international upheavals?
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms mariya gabriel, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu. the european parliament was to take a decision on the conclusions of the agreement between the union and vanuatu which was negotiated by the commission. the purpose was to make it easier for people to obtain visas. citizens of both sets will be exempt from visa requirements for stays of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. this exemption does not apply to persons travelling on business. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-vanuatu agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. according to ms gabriel's report, the country in question poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants is high, with a relatively low visa refusal rate. visa liberalisation simplifies the conditions for travel. however, we have a duty to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted against this agreement because they are hostile to the short-stay visa exception, which it endorses. visas are required for national security purposes, except for those with our trusted partners, particularly european ones.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. as in the previous case, this is a series of agreements on the short-stay visa exemption with several countries. the agreement is expected to help boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations with these partners. the key to these agreements is trust: the visa refusal rate is very low because countries trust visa applicants. the rapporteur believes that the countries covered by these agreements do not represent a threat, either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security. in view of the mass immigration we are experiencing and which the eu is no longer able to manage, in view of the risks and the recent attacks in france, one can only be surprised, or even worried, by this sudden willingness to open up. maybe the timing isn't right!
in writing. ‒ on the substance of the matter, i am in favour of short-stay visa exemptions to facilitate the mobility and travel of citizens of both parties, in this case the member states to the state of vanuatu and vice versa. i regret, however, that the french overseas departments are excluded. i'm officially denouncing this whole procedure. only the commission is empowered to negotiate these agreements on behalf of the states and citizens. it informs the european parliament of the state of the negotiations only at the very end of the process. above all, these agreements are implemented even before the european parliament gives its approval or not. the eu has a role to play in this process, and the eu is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards the united arab emirates, it should be noted that 150 000 eu nationals are established there and most of them work there. about 1.6 million europeans visit the uae each year, and some 230,000 emiratis have travelled to europe, mainly for business trips and luxury tourism. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ these agreements provide for visa-free short-stay travel to the listed countries, in order to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants from these countries is high, with a historically low visa refusal rate. the rapporteur believes that the countries in question do not represent a threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. however, the question arises whether it is appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. the answer is no, hence a vote against.
in writing. ‒ like the previous report, this one is about facilitating the issuance of visas, but this time for vanuatu. economic ties with the country are expected to intensify, resulting from a relationship of increased trust through the visa exemption. however, even if the rapporteur assures us that this country does not represent a threat to the security of the eu's territory or to its migration policy, the timing of these liberalizations does not seem appropriate. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the republic of vanuatu. the aim was to allow visa-free travel for european and vanuatu nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague mariya gabriel on the agreement between the european union and vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for nationals of the two parties concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption covers all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for all purposes other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ like the previous report, this one is about visa facilitation, but this time for vanuatu. economic ties with the country are expected to intensify, resulting from a relationship of increased trust through the visa exemption. however, even if the rapporteur assures us that this country does not represent a threat to the security of the eu's territory or to its migration policy, the timing of these liberalizations does not seem appropriate. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the approval of the eu-vanuatu agreement to abolish the requirement for visas for short stays, i.e. for stays of less than 90 days for all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic). it is important that european citizens can travel to vanuatu without a visa and vice versa. this visa exemption should hopefully enable us to support this small pacific island, which was hit hard by the cyclone pam last march.
in writing. ‒ this agreement seals the visa exemption for very short stays and on the basis of reciprocity with vanuatu. a way to make it easier for our citizens to travel, whether it's for tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and of vanuatu when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation would simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. however, the question arises as to whether visa-free agreements are appropriate at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. this change in visa policy is contrary to common sense. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement with the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. while the report presents the liberalisation of visas for short stays as an opportunity to boost tourism, simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs or encourage investment, i believe that at the moment it is not appropriate to conclude similar agreements. in the face of a growing terrorist threat and the european policy of mass immigration, these agreements seem inappropriate to me. indeed, even if the republic of trinidad and tobago is not directly a point of departure for immigration, i do not consider it advisable to proceed with such an agreement in the current context, regardless of the country concerned.
in writing. ‒ this agreement calls for the short-stay visa exemption for persons coming from trinidad and tobago. the aim is to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. however, it is not appropriate to conclude such agreements, even though the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe. we are also opposed to this desire to create a world without frontiers, together with my colleagues from the national front. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which endorses the agreement with the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. since the european union refuses to control its external borders as it should and has abolished the internal borders of the schengen area, it is urgent that france regain control of its national borders... and apply its laws, especially in the field of border redirection. i am therefore opposed to this type of agreement on principle.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are intended to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. the report also states that the country poses no threat in terms of illegal migration, security or public order. however, it is questionable whether it is worthwhile to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the eu has lost all control over mass immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to the report, these agreements on visa exemption for short stays should boost tourism and strengthen our trade relations with the republic of trinidad and tobago. these new arrangements will facilitate the movement of entrepreneurs and investors, thus strengthening economic links between enterprises. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union. but at a time when western countries, and france in particular, are facing a very serious terrorist threat, it is absolutely not appropriate to conclude such agreements. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the eu-trinidad and tobago agreement negotiated by the european commission to facilitate the granting of short-stay visas. it allows citizens of the european union and citizens of trinidad and tobago to obtain a visa free of charge for the territory of all the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa is for all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. i supported this measure of short-stay visa exemption between eu member states and trinidad and tobago. the eu is trinidad and tobago's second largest trading partner, and this measure will help facilitate investment and boost tourism.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel report aimed to remove the visa requirement for the commonwealth of dominica, vanuatu, trinidad and tobago, samoa, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines and the united arab emirates. these countries do not pose a risk of uncontrolled immigration or of disturbing public order. however, at a time when islamist terrorists are looking for the slightest loophole in our defence in order to attack us, i do not think it is appropriate to exempt certain countries from visas and to facilitate access to our territory in general from non-european countries. although i am in favour of closer economic ties with these countries, i cannot knowingly take the risk of allowing ill-intentioned people to take advantage of this to undermine european security. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am against visa-free travel for third countries
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of trinidad and tobago, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for the nationals of this caribbean state, which is mainly oriented towards the united states. the risk of migration is very low. however, beyond the republic of trinidad and tobago, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions in a rotating fashion when for some of these countries, especially those in the western balkans, the migration and internal security risk to the member states of the european union is real. there is a regulation which lists a positive list of countries whose nationals are exempt from the short-stay visa requirement. these countries now number 42, including the united states and japan, and will soon be 61. shouldn't this list be revised in the light of international upheavals?
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago. the european parliament was to take a decision on the conclusions of the agreement between the union and the republic of trinidad and tobago, which was negotiated by the commission. the purpose was to make it easier for people to obtain visas. citizens of both sets will be exempt from visa requirements for stays of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. this exemption does not apply to persons travelling on business. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-trinidad and tobago agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. according to ms gabriel's report, the country in question poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants is high, with a relatively low visa refusal rate. visa liberalisation simplifies the conditions for travel. however, we have a duty to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted against this agreement because they are hostile to the visa exemption for short stays, which it endorses. visas are required for national security purposes, except for those with our trusted partners, particularly european ones.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. as in the previous cases, this is a series of agreements on the short-stay visa exemption with several countries. the agreement is expected to help boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations with these partners. the key to these agreements is trust: the visa refusal rate is very low because countries trust visa applicants. the rapporteur believes that the countries covered by these agreements do not represent a threat, either in terms of irregular migration or security. in view of the mass immigration we are experiencing and which the eu is no longer able to manage, in view of the risks and the recent attacks in france, one can only be surprised, even worried, by this sudden willingness to open up. maybe the timing isn't right!
in writing. ‒ on the substance of the matter, i am in favour of short-stay visa exemptions to facilitate the mobility and travel of citizens of both parties, in this case the member states to trinidad and tobago and vice versa. i regret, however, that the french overseas departments are excluded. i'm officially denouncing this whole procedure. only the commission is empowered to negotiate these agreements on behalf of the states and citizens. it informs the european parliament of the state of the negotiations only at the very end of the process. above all, these agreements are implemented even before the european parliament gives its approval or not. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is not a party to any political agreement. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards the united arab emirates, it should be noted that 150 000 eu nationals are established there and, for the most part, work there. about 1.6 million europeans visit the uae each year and some 230,000 emiratis travel to europe, mainly for business trips and luxury tourism. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ these agreements provide for visa-free short-stay travel to the listed countries, in order to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants from these countries is high, with a historically low visa refusal rate. the rapporteur believes that the countries in question do not represent a threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. however, the question arises as to whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. the answer is no, hence a vote against.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous report on vanuatu, the aim is to liberalize the issuing of visas, but this time with trinidad and tobago. for the reasons mentioned above (visa exemption at a time when the union is unable to control who is on its territory), i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago. the aim was to allow visa-free travel for european and trinidadian nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague, mariya gabriel, on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and trinidad and tobago. these agreements provide for a visa-free travel regime for nationals of the two parties concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption covers all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for all purposes other than paid employment.
in writing. ‒ as in previous reports, this report deals with visa liberalisation, but this time with trinidad and tobago. for the reasons mentioned above (visa exemption at a time when the union is unable to control who is on its territory), i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the approval of the agreement between the european union and trinidad and tobago which aims to abolish the requirement for visas for short stays, i.e. for stays of less than 90 days for all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic). it is important that european citizens can travel to trinidad and tobago without a visa and vice versa. i hope that this visa exemption will help to support the tourism sector in this caribbean island.
in writing. ‒ this agreement seals the exemption of visas for very short stays and on the basis of reciprocity with trinidad and tobago, a way to facilitate the travel of our nationals, whether for tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of trinidad and tobago on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and for nationals of trinidad and tobago when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is open to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation would simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. however, the question arises as to whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. this change in visa policy is contrary to common sense. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement with samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. while the report presents the liberalisation of visas for short stays as an opportunity to boost tourism, simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs and encourage investment, i believe that at the moment it is not appropriate to conclude similar agreements. in the face of a growing terrorist threat and the european policy of mass immigration, these agreements seem inappropriate to me. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the status of the european union in the context of the european union's accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ this agreement calls for the short-stay visa exemption for persons coming from samoa. the aim is to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. however, it is not appropriate to conclude such agreements, even though the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe. we are also opposed, together with my colleagues in the national front, to this desire to create a world without frontiers. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which endorses the agreement with the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. since the european union refuses to control its external borders as it should and has abolished the internal borders of the schengen area, it is urgent that france regain control of its national borders and apply its laws, particularly in the field of border control. i am therefore opposed to this type of agreement on principle.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. the report also states that the country poses no threat in terms of illegal migration, security or public order. however, it is questionable whether it is worthwhile to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the union has lost all control over mass immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to the report, these agreements on visa exemption for short stays should boost tourism and strengthen our trade relations with the independent state of samoa. these new arrangements will facilitate the movement of entrepreneurs and investors, which will intensify economic links between companies. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area, which is to be signed by the european union and the republic of moldova on 1 january 2005. but at a time when western countries, and france in particular, are facing a very serious terrorist threat, it is absolutely not appropriate to conclude such agreements. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament approve the conclusion of the agreement between the union and samoa, negotiated by the european commission, which aims to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas. it allows citizens of the european union and citizens of samoa to obtain a visa free of charge for the territory of all the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa is for all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. i supported this report which aims to introduce a short-stay visa waiver between the member states of the european union and samoa. the agreement will in particular offer a definite advantage to nationals of the independent state of samoa wishing to travel to the union and promote tourism in europe.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel report aimed to remove the visa requirement for the commonwealth of dominica, vanuatu, trinidad and tobago, samoa, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines and the united arab emirates. these countries do not pose a risk of uncontrolled immigration or of disturbing public order. however, at a time when islamist terrorists are looking for the slightest loophole in our defence in order to attack us, i do not think it is appropriate to exempt certain countries from visas and to facilitate access to our territory in general from non-european countries. although i am in favour of closer economic ties with these countries, i cannot knowingly take the risk of allowing ill-intentioned people to take advantage of this to undermine european security. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am against visa-free travel for third countries.
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of samoa, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for the nationals of this small constitutional monarchy of 192,000 inhabitants located in the pacific ocean. the risk of migration is very low. however, beyond the island of samoa, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions in a rotating fashion when, for some of these countries, particularly those in the western balkans, the migratory and internal security risk to the member states of the european union is real. there is a regulation which lists a positive list of countries whose nationals are exempt from the short-stay visa requirement. today there are 42 of these countries, including the united states and japan, and soon there will be 61. should not this list be revised in the light of international developments?
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. nevertheless, the opportunity to conclude such agreements, even as the porosity of european borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems slim. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa. the european parliament was to take a decision on the conclusions of the agreement between the union and the independent state of samoa, which was negotiated by the commission. the purpose was to make it easier for people to obtain visas. citizens of both sets will be exempt from visa requirements for stays of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. this exemption does not apply to persons travelling on business. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-samoa agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. according to ms gabriel's report, the country in question poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants is high, with a relatively low visa refusal rate. visa liberalisation simplifies the conditions for travel. however, we have a duty to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted against this agreement because they are hostile to the short-stay visa exception, which it endorses. visas are required for national security purposes, except for those with our trusted partners, particularly european ones.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. as in the previous cases, this is a series of agreements on the short-stay visa exemption with several countries. the agreement is expected to help boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations with these partners. the key to these agreements is trust: the visa refusal rate is very low because countries trust visa applicants. the rapporteur believes that the countries covered by these agreements do not represent a threat, either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security. in view of the mass immigration we are experiencing and which the union is no longer able to manage, in view of the risks and the recent attacks in france, one can only be surprised, even worried, by this sudden desire for openness. maybe this isn't the best time!
in writing. ‒ on the substance of the matter, i am in favour of short-stay visa exemptions to facilitate mobility and travel for citizens of both parties, in this case member states to samoa and vice versa. i regret, however, that the french overseas departments are excluded. i'm officially denouncing this whole procedure. only the commission is empowered to negotiate these agreements on behalf of the states and citizens. it informs the european parliament of the state of the negotiations only at the very end of the process. above all, these agreements are implemented even before the european parliament gives its approval or not, an exemplary proof that democracy has no place in the union (note that the same procedure will be applied in the case of the transatlantic agreement). under the circumstances, i will refrain.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards the united arab emirates, it should be noted that 150 000 eu nationals are established there and that most of them work there. about 1.6 million europeans visit the uae each year and some 230,000 emiratis travel to europe, mainly for business trips and luxury tourism. nevertheless, the opportunity to conclude such agreements, even as the porosity of european borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems slim. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ these agreements provide for visa-free short-stay travel to the listed countries, in order to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants from these countries is high, with a historically low visa refusal rate. the rapporteur believes that the countries in question do not represent a threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. however, the question arises as to whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. the answer is no, hence a vote against.
in writing. ‒ as in previous reports on visa liberalisation, i voted against this visa exemption text for samoa, as it is not appropriate to implement this policy at a time when the union is unable to know who is entering its territory. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the independent state of samoa. the aim was to allow visa-free travel for european and samoan nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and samoa. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for nationals of the two parties concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official service and special passport holders) travelling for all purposes except for gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ as in previous reports on visa liberalisation, i voted against this visa exemption text for the samoan islands, as it is not appropriate to implement this policy at a time when the union is unable to know who is entering its territory.
in writing. ‒ i supported the approval of the agreement between the european union and samoa which aims to abolish the requirement for visas for short stays, i.e. for stays of less than 90 days for all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, etc.). it is important that european citizens can return to samoa without a visa and vice versa. i hope that this visa exemption will help to support the tourism sector in this pacific island.
in writing. ‒ this agreement seals the exemption of visas for very short stays and on the basis of reciprocity with samoa, a way of facilitating the travel of our nationals, whether for tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the independent state of samoa on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and for nationals of samoa when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is open to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation would simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. however, the question arises as to whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. this change in visa policy is contrary to common sense. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement with grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. while the report presents the liberalisation of visas for short stays as an opportunity to boost tourism, simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs and encourage investment, i believe that at the moment it is not appropriate to conclude similar agreements. in the face of a growing terrorist threat and the european policy of mass immigration, these agreements seem inappropriate to me. indeed, even if grenada is not directly a point of departure for immigration, i do not think it is wise to proceed with such an agreement in the current context, regardless of the country concerned.
in writing. ‒ this agreement calls for the short-stay visa exemption for persons coming from grenada. the aim is to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. however, it is not appropriate to conclude such agreements, even though the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe. we are also opposed, together with my colleagues in the national front, to this desire to create a world without frontiers. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which endorses the agreement with grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. since the european union refuses to control its external borders as it should and has abolished internal borders in the schengen area, it is urgent that france regain control of its national borders and apply its laws, particularly in the area of border control. i am therefore opposed to such agreements on principle.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. the report also states that the country poses no threat in terms of illegal migration, security or public order. however, it is questionable whether it is worthwhile to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the union has lost all control over mass immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to the report, these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver should boost tourism and strengthen our trade relations with grenada. these new arrangements will facilitate the movement of entrepreneurs and investors, which will intensify economic links between companies. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area, which is to be signed by the european union and the republic of moldova on 1 january 2005. but at a time when western countries, and france in particular, are facing a very serious terrorist threat, it is absolutely not appropriate to conclude such agreements. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the union and grenada, negotiated by the european commission, to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas. it allows citizens of the european union and citizens of grenada to obtain a visa free of charge for the territory of all the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa is for all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. this short-stay visa waiver measure will allow for a strengthening of political dialogue and economic relations between the eu member states and grenada. i voted for this measure to bring our territories closer together.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel report aimed to remove the visa requirement for the commonwealth of dominica, vanuatu, trinidad and tobago, samoa, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines and the united arab emirates. these countries do not pose a risk of uncontrolled immigration or of disturbing public order. however, at a time when islamist terrorists are looking for the slightest loophole in our defence in order to attack us, i do not think it is appropriate to exempt certain countries from visas and to facilitate access to our territory in general from non-european countries. although i am in favour of closer economic ties with these countries, i cannot knowingly take the risk of allowing ill-intentioned people to take advantage of this to undermine european security. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am against visa-free travel for third countries.
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of grenada, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for the nationals of this small, sparsely populated island state located 200 km north of venezuela. the risk of migration is very low. however, beyond grenada, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions in a hand-to-hand manner when, for some of these countries, particularly those in the western balkans, the migratory risk and the internal security of the member states of the european union is real. there is a regulation which lists a positive list of countries whose nationals are exempt from the short-stay visa requirement. today there are 42 of these countries, including the united states and japan, and soon there will be 61. should not this list be revised in the light of international developments?
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and grenada. the european parliament was to take a decision on the conclusions of the agreement between the union and grenada, which was negotiated by the commission. the purpose was to make it easier for people to obtain visas. citizens of both sets will be exempt from visa requirements for stays of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. this exemption does not apply to persons travelling on business. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-grenada agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. according to ms gabriel's report, the country in question poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants is high, with a relatively low visa refusal rate. visa liberalisation simplifies the conditions for travel. however, we have a duty to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted against this agreement because they are hostile to the short-stay visa exception, which it endorses. visas are required for national security purposes, except for those with our trusted partners, particularly european ones.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. as in the previous cases, this is a series of agreements on the short-stay visa exemption with several countries. the agreement is expected to help boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations with these partners. the key to these agreements is trust: the visa refusal rate is very low because countries trust visa applicants. the rapporteur believes that the countries covered by these agreements do not represent a threat, either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security. in view of the mass immigration we are experiencing and which the union is no longer able to manage, in view of the risks and the recent attacks in france, one can only be surprised, even worried, by this sudden desire for openness. maybe this isn't the best time!
in writing. ‒ on the substance of the matter, i am in favour of short-stay visa exemptions to facilitate the mobility and travel of citizens of both parties, in this case of the member states to grenada and vice versa. i regret, however, that the french overseas departments are excluded. i'm officially denouncing this whole procedure. only the commission is empowered to negotiate these agreements on behalf of the states and citizens. it informs the european parliament of the state of the negotiations only at the very end of the process. above all, these agreements are implemented even before the european parliament gives its approval or not, an exemplary proof that democracy has no place in the union (note that the same procedure will be applied in the case of the transatlantic agreement). in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards the united arab emirates, it should be noted that 150 000 eu nationals are established there and most of them work there. around 1.6 million europeans visit the uae each year, and some 230,000 emiratis have travelled to europe, mainly for business and luxury tourism. nevertheless, the conclusion of such agreements, even at a time when the porosity of european borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ these agreements provide for visa-free short-stay travel to the listed countries, in order to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants from these countries is high, with a historically low visa refusal rate. the rapporteur believes that the countries in question do not represent a threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. however, the question arises whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. the answer is no, hence a vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and grenada. while it may seem desirable to ease visa formalities, or even exempt nationals, to increase the intensity of economic ties and remove barriers to investment, the timing does not seem appropriate, given the eu's difficulties on migration policy. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and grenada. the aim was to allow visa-free travel for european and grenadian nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and grenada. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for nationals of the two parties concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption covers all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports) whose travel has all kinds of purposes, except for gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and grenada. it is based on the belief that facilitating the issuing of visas, or even exempting nationals, can increase the intensity of economic ties and remove barriers to investment. the timing is particularly inappropriate, given the eu's difficulties with migration policy. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the approval of the eu-grenada agreement to abolish the visa requirement for short stays, i.e. for stays of less than 90 days for all categories of persons (ordinary and diplomatic passport holders). it is important that european citizens can return to grenada without a visa and vice versa. this visa exemption should hopefully help to support the tourism sector in this caribbean island.
in writing. ‒ this agreement seals the visa exemption for very short stays and on the basis of reciprocity with grenada. a way to make it easier for our citizens to travel, whether it's for tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and grenada on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and grenada when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is open to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation would simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. however, the question arises as to whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. this change in visa policy is contrary to common sense. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement with east timor on the short-stay visa waiver. while the report presents the liberalisation of visas for short stays as an opportunity to boost tourism, simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs and encourage investment, i believe that at the moment it is not appropriate to conclude similar agreements. in the face of a growing terrorist threat and the european policy of mass immigration, these agreements seem inappropriate to me. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of east timor.
in writing. ‒ this agreement calls for the short-stay visa exemption for persons coming from east timor. the aim is to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for this country, which according to the report poses no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. however, it is not appropriate to conclude such agreements, even though the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe. we are also opposed to this desire to create a world without frontiers, together with my colleagues from the national front. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which endorses the agreement with east timor on the short-stay visa waiver. since the european union refuses to control its external borders as it should and has abolished the internal borders of the schengen area, it is urgent that france regain control of its national borders and apply its laws, particularly in the field of border control. i am therefore opposed to this type of agreement on principle.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. the report also states that the country poses no threat in terms of illegal migration, security or public order. however, it is questionable whether it is worthwhile to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to the report, these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits should boost tourism and strengthen our trade relations with the democratic republic of timor-leste. these new arrangements will facilitate the movement of entrepreneurs and investors, which will intensify economic links between companies. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area, which is to be signed by the european union and the republic of moldova on 1 january 2005. but at a time when western countries, and france in particular, are facing a very serious terrorist threat, it is absolutely not appropriate to conclude such agreements. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and east timor negotiated by the european commission to facilitate the issuing of short-stay visas. it allows citizens of the european union and citizens of east timor to obtain a visa free of charge for the territory of all the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa is for all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to introduce a short-stay visa waiver between the member states of the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste. the agreement is of regional political importance as the european union has announced a strengthening of its strategic partnership with asean, an organisation to which east timor is applying to join.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel report aimed to remove the visa requirement for the commonwealth of dominica, vanuatu, trinidad and tobago, samoa, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines and the united arab emirates. these countries do not pose a risk of uncontrolled immigration or of disturbing public order. however, at a time when islamist terrorists are looking for any weakness in our defence in order to attack us, i do not think it is appropriate to exempt certain countries from visas and to facilitate access to our territory from non-european countries in general. although i am in favour of closer economic ties with these countries, i cannot knowingly take the risk of allowing ill-intentioned people to take advantage of this to undermine european security. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am against visa-free travel for third countries.
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of east timor, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement i.e. three months over a period of 180 days for the nationals of this young state which gained independence in 2002, and which is admittedly poor but has experienced an average growth rate of 9.5% over the last five years. the risk of migration is very low. however, beyond east timor, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions in a back and forth manner when for some of these countries, particularly those in the western balkans, the migratory risk and the internal security of the member states of the european union is real. there is a regulation which lists a positive list of countries whose nationals are exempt from the short-stay visa requirement. today there are 42 such countries, including the united states and japan, and soon there will be 61. should not this list be revised in the light of international developments?
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. nevertheless, the conclusion of such agreements, even at a time when the porosity of european borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste. the european parliament was to take a decision on the conclusions of the agreement between the union and the democratic republic of timor-leste which was negotiated by the commission. the purpose was to make it easier for people to obtain visas. citizens of both sets will be exempt from visa requirements for stays of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. this exemption does not apply to persons travelling on business. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement between the european union and east timor on the short-stay visa waiver. according to ms gabriel's report, the country in question poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants is high, with a relatively low visa refusal rate. visa liberalisation also simplifies travel conditions. however, we have a duty to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted against this agreement because they are hostile to the short-stay visa exception, which it endorses. visas are required for national security purposes, except for those with our trusted partners, particularly european ones.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. as in the previous cases, this is a series of agreements on the short-stay visa exemption with several countries. the agreement is expected to help boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations with these partners. the key to these agreements is trust: the visa refusal rate is very low because countries trust visa applicants. the rapporteur believes that the countries covered by these agreements do not represent a threat, either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security. in view of the mass immigration we are experiencing and which the european union is no longer able to manage, and in view of the risks and the recent attacks in france, one can only be surprised, even worried, by this sudden willingness to open up. maybe the timing isn't right!
in writing. ‒ on the substance of the matter, i am in favour of short-stay visa exemptions to facilitate the mobility and travel of citizens of both parties, in this case the member states in east timor and vice versa. i regret, however, that french people overseas are excluded. i'm officially denouncing this whole procedure. only the commission is empowered to negotiate these agreements on behalf of the states and citizens. it informs the european parliament of the state of the negotiations only at the very end of the process. above all, these agreements are being implemented even before the european parliament gives its approval or not, an exemplary testimony that democracy has no place in the european union. (note that the same procedure will be applied in the case of the transatlantic agreement.) in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards the united arab emirates, it should be noted that 150 000 eu nationals are established there and most of them work there. around 1.6 million europeans visit the uae each year, and some 230,000 emiratis have travelled to europe, mainly for business and luxury tourism. nevertheless, the conclusion of such agreements, even at a time when the porosity of european borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ these agreements provide for visa-free short-stay travel to the listed countries, in order to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants from these countries is high, with a historically low visa refusal rate. the rapporteur believes that the countries in question do not represent a threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. however, it is questionable whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. the answer is no, hence a vote against.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous reports on the short-stay visa waiver, i voted against this text of agreement with east timor, as the timing of visa liberalisation does not seem appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste. the aim was to allow visa-free travel for european and east timorese nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and east timor. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for nationals of the two parties concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption covers all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) travelling for all purposes except for gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous reports on the short-stay visa exemption, i voted against this agreement with east timor because the timing of visa liberalisation seems less than opportune.
in writing. ‒ this agreement seals the visa exemption for very short stays and on the basis of reciprocity with east timor. a way to make it easier for our citizens to travel, whether it's for tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of timor-leste on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and for east timorese nationals who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is open to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation would simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. however, the question arises as to whether it is appropriate to conclude visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. this change in visa policy is contrary to common sense. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement with saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. while the report presents the liberalisation of visas for short stays as an opportunity to boost tourism, simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs and encourage investment, i believe that at the moment it is not appropriate to conclude similar agreements. in the face of a growing terrorist threat and the european policy of mass immigration, these agreements seem inappropriate to me. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the status of the community's fishing fleet.
in writing. ‒ this agreement provides for the short-stay visa exemption for persons coming from saint lucia. the aim is to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for this country, which according to the report poses no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. however, it is not appropriate to conclude such agreements, even though the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe. we are also opposed to this desire to create a world without frontiers, together with my colleagues from the national front. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which endorses the agreement with saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. since the european union refuses to control its external borders as it should and has abolished the internal borders of the schengen area, it is urgent that france regain control of its national borders and apply its laws, particularly in the field of border control. i am therefore opposed to this type of agreement on principle.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are intended to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. the report also states that the country poses no threat in terms of illegal migration, security or public order. however, it is questionable whether it is worthwhile to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the eu has lost all control over mass immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to the report, these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits should boost tourism and strengthen our trade relations with saint lucia. these new arrangements will facilitate the movement of entrepreneurs and investors, thus strengthening economic links between enterprises. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union. but at a time when western countries, and france in particular, are facing a very serious terrorist threat, it is absolutely not appropriate to conclude such agreements. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the eu-saint lucia agreement negotiated by the european commission to facilitate the granting of short-stay visas. it allows citizens of the european union and citizens of saint lucia to obtain a visa free of charge for the territory of all the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa is for all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. this short-stay visa waiver measure will allow for enhanced economic cooperation and a deepening of political dialogue between the eu member states and saint lucia. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel report aimed to remove the visa requirement for the commonwealth of dominica, vanuatu, trinidad and tobago, samoa, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines and the united arab emirates. these countries do not pose a risk of uncontrolled immigration or of disturbing public order. however, at a time when islamist terrorists are looking for the slightest loophole in our defence in order to attack us, i do not think it is appropriate to exempt certain countries from visas and to facilitate access to our territory in general from non-european countries. although i am in favour of closer economic ties with these countries, i cannot knowingly take the risk of allowing ill-intentioned people to take advantage of this to undermine european security. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am against visa-free travel for third countries.
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of saint lucia, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for the nationals of this small english-speaking caribbean state with very strong historical ties to france. the risk of migration is very low. however, beyond the island of saint lucia, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions in a hand-to-hand fashion when for some of these countries, especially those in the western balkans, the migration and internal security risk to the member states of the european union is real. there is a regulation which lists a positive list of countries whose nationals are exempt from the short-stay visa requirement. these countries now number 42, including the united states and japan, and will soon be 61. shouldn't this list be revised in the light of international upheavals?
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms mariya gabriel, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia. the european parliament was to take a decision on the conclusions of the agreement between the union and saint lucia, which was negotiated by the commission. the purpose was to make it easier for people to obtain visas. citizens of both sets will be exempt from visa requirements for stays of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. this exemption does not apply to persons travelling on business. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-saint lucia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. according to ms gabriel's report, the country in question poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants is high, with a relatively low visa refusal rate. visa liberalisation simplifies the conditions for travel. however, we have a duty to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted against this agreement because they are hostile to the short-stay visa exception, which it endorses. visas are required for national security purposes, except for those with our trusted partners, particularly european ones.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. as in the previous cases, this is a series of agreements on the short-stay visa exemption with several countries. the agreement is expected to help boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations with these partners. the key to these agreements is trust: the visa refusal rate is very low because countries trust visa applicants. the rapporteur believes that the countries covered by these agreements do not represent a threat, either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security. in view of the mass immigration we are experiencing and which the eu is no longer able to manage, in view of the risks and the recent attacks in france, one can only be surprised, or even worried, by this sudden willingness to open up. maybe the timing isn't right!
in writing. ‒ on the substance of the matter, i am in favour of short-stay visa exemptions to facilitate mobility and travel for citizens of both parties, in this case the member states to saint lucia and vice versa. i regret, however, that the french overseas territories are excluded. moreover, we cannot strengthen cooperation with that country without holding it to account for the tax haven it represents. i'm officially denouncing this whole procedure. only the commission is empowered to negotiate these agreements on behalf of the states and citizens. it informs the european parliament of the state of the negotiations only at the very end of the process. above all, these agreements are implemented even before the european parliament gives its approval or not. the eu has a role to play in this process, and the eu is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards the united arab emirates, it should be noted that 150 000 eu nationals are established there and most of them work there. about 1.6 million europeans visit the uae each year, and some 230,000 emiratis have travelled to europe, mainly for business trips and luxury tourism. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ these agreements provide for visa-free short-stay travel to the listed countries, in order to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants from these countries is high, with a historically low visa refusal rate. the rapporteur believes that the countries in question do not represent a threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. however, the question arises whether it is appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. the answer is no, hence a vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and saint lucia, like previous reports on the issue, comes at an inopportune time, when the eu is unable to know who is entering its territory. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and saint lucia. the aim was to allow visa-free travel for european and saint lucian nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague, mariya gabriel, on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and saint lucia. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for nationals of the two parties concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official service and special passport holders) travelling for all purposes except for gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ this report on the short-stay visa waiver between the eu and saint lucia, like previous reports on the issue, comes at an inopportune time, when the eu is unable to know who is entering its territory. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the approval of the eu-saint lucia agreement to abolish the requirement for visas for short stays, i.e. for stays of less than 90 days for all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic). it is important that european citizens can return to saint lucia without a visa and vice versa. i hope that this visa exemption will help to support the tourism sector in this caribbean island.
in writing. ‒ this agreement seals the visa exemption for very short stays and on the basis of reciprocity with saint lucia. a way to make it easier for our citizens to travel, whether it's for tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint lucia on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of saint lucia who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation would simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. however, the question arises as to whether visa-free agreements are appropriate at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. this change in visa policy is contrary to common sense. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement with saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. while the report presents the liberalisation of visas for short stays as an opportunity to boost tourism, simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs or encourage investment, i believe that at the moment it is not appropriate to conclude similar agreements. in the face of a growing terrorist threat and the european policy of mass immigration, these agreements seem inappropriate to me. indeed, even if saint vincent and the grenadines is not directly a point of departure for immigration, i do not think it is wise to proceed with such an agreement in the current context, regardless of the country concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate, as the committee had recommended in its report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which endorses the agreement with saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. since the european union refuses to control its external borders as it should and has abolished the internal borders of the schengen area, it is urgent that france regain control of its national borders and apply its laws, particularly in the field of border control. i am therefore opposed to such agreements on principle.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. the report also states that the country poses no threat in terms of illegal migration, security or public order. however, it is questionable whether it is worthwhile to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the eu has lost all control over mass immigration. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to this report, these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits should boost tourism and strengthen our trade relations with saint vincent and the grenadines. these new arrangements will facilitate the movement of entrepreneurs and investors, which will intensify economic links between companies. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union. but at a time when western countries, and france in particular, are facing a very serious terrorist threat, it is absolutely not appropriate to conclude such agreements. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines, negotiated by the european commission, to facilitate the issuance of short-stay visas. it allows citizens of the european union and citizens of saint vincent and the grenadines to obtain a visa free of charge for the territory of all the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa is for all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. i supported this report introducing a short-stay visa waiver between eu member states and st vincent and the grenadines. in addition to strengthening political dialogue and economic relations, this measure will help to give a new impetus to trade between the contracting parties.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel report aimed to remove the visa requirement for the commonwealth of dominica, vanuatu, trinidad and tobago, samoa, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines and the united arab emirates. these countries do not pose a risk of uncontrolled immigration or of disturbing public order. however, at a time when islamist terrorists are looking for the slightest loophole in our defence in order to attack us, i do not think it is appropriate to exempt certain countries from visas and to facilitate access to our territory in general from non-european countries. although i am in favour of closer economic ties with these countries, i cannot knowingly take the risk of allowing ill-intentioned people to take advantage of this to undermine european security. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am against visa-free travel for third countries.
in writing. ‒ if we take the particular case of saint vincent and the grenadines, i see no particular difficulty in lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for nationals of this predominantly english-speaking island state in the caribbean. the risk of migration is very low. however, beyond the island of saint vincent and the grenadines, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions in a hand-to-hand manner when for some of these countries, especially those in the western balkans, the migration and internal security risk to the member states of the european union is real. there is a regulation which lists a positive list of countries whose nationals are exempt from the short-stay visa requirement. these countries now number 42, including the united states and japan, and will soon be 61. shouldn't this list be revised in the light of international upheavals?
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, ms mariya gabriel, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines. the european parliament was to take a decision on the conclusions of the agreement between the union and saint vincent and the grenadines, which was negotiated by the commission. the purpose was to make it easier for people to obtain visas. citizens of both sets will be exempt from visa requirements for stays of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. this exemption does not apply to persons travelling on business. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-saint vincent and the grenadines agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. according to ms gabriel's report, the country in question poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants is high, with a relatively low visa refusal rate. visa liberalisation simplifies the conditions for travel. however, we have a duty to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted against this agreement because they are hostile to the short-stay visa exception, which it endorses. visas are required for national security purposes, except for those with our trusted partners, particularly european ones.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. as in the previous cases, this is a series of agreements on the short-stay visa exemption with several countries. the agreement is expected to help boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations with these partners. the key to these agreements is trust: the visa refusal rate is very low because countries trust visa applicants. the rapporteur believes that the countries covered by these agreements do not represent a threat, either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security. in view of the mass immigration we are experiencing and which the eu is no longer able to manage, in view of the risks and the recent attacks in france, one can only be surprised, or even worried, by this sudden willingness to open up. maybe the timing isn't right!
in writing. ‒ on the substance of the matter, i am in favour of short-stay visa exemptions to facilitate the mobility and travel of citizens of both parties, in this case of the member states to saint vincent and the grenadines and vice versa. i regret, however, that the french overseas territories are excluded. moreover, we cannot strengthen cooperation with that country without holding it to account for the tax haven it represents. i'm officially denouncing this whole procedure. only the commission is empowered to negotiate these agreements on behalf of the states and citizens. it informs the european parliament of the state of the negotiations only at the very end of the process. above all, these agreements are implemented even before the european parliament gives its approval or not. the eu has a role to play in this process, and the eu is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards the united arab emirates, it should be noted that 150 000 eu nationals are established there and most of them work there. some 1.6 million europeans visit the uae each year, and some 230,000 emiratis have travelled to europe, mainly for business and luxury tourism. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ these agreements provide for visa-free short-stay travel to the listed countries, in order to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants from these countries is high, with a historically low visa refusal rate. the rapporteur believes that the countries in question do not represent a threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. however, the question arises whether it is appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. the answer is no, hence a vote against.
in writing. ‒ as in the previous reports on the short-stay visa waiver, i voted against the report on the agreement with saint vincent and the grenadines, as the timing is not appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines. the purpose of the agreement was to allow visa-free travel for european and saint vincent nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague mariya gabriel on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for nationals of the two parties concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passport holders) travelling for all purposes except for gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ as in previous reports on the short-stay visa waiver, i voted against the agreement with saint vincent and the grenadines, because the timing is not right, in the midst of an unprecedented migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the approval of the agreement between the eu and saint vincent and the grenadines to abolish the visa requirement for short stays, i.e. for stays of less than 90 days, for all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic). it is important that european citizens can return to saint vincent and the grenadines without a visa and vice versa. i hope that this visa exemption will help to support the tourism sector in this caribbean island.
in writing. ‒ this agreement seals the visa exemption for very short stays and on the basis of reciprocity with saint vincent. a way to make it easier for our citizens to travel, whether it's for tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and saint vincent and the grenadines on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of saint vincent and the grenadines when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation would simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. however, the question arises as to whether visa-free agreements are appropriate at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. this change in visa policy is contrary to common sense. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement with the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. while the report presents the liberalisation of visas for short stays as an opportunity to boost tourism, simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs or encourage investment, i believe that at the moment it is not appropriate to conclude similar agreements. in the face of a growing terrorist threat and the european policy of mass immigration, these agreements seem inappropriate to me. indeed, even if the uae is not directly a starting point for immigration, many europeans move there every year for economic reasons and the emiratis are engaged in luxury tourism in europe, i do not think it is wise to proceed with this kind of agreement in the current context, regardless of the country concerned.
in writing. ‒ this agreement calls for the short-stay visa exemption for people coming from the united arab emirates. the aim of the agreement is to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. nearly 150 000 eu nationals are established there and most of them work there. about 1.6 million europeans visit the uae annually, and nearly 230,000 emiratis have travelled to europe, mainly for business trips and luxury tourism. however, it is not appropriate to conclude such agreements, even though the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe. we are also opposed, together with my colleagues in the national front, to this desire to create a world without frontiers. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text which endorses the agreement with the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver. since the european union refuses to control its external borders as it should and has abolished the internal borders of the schengen area, it is urgent that france regain control of its national borders... and apply its laws, especially in the field of border redirection. so i am opposed to this type of agreement on principle.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are intended to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. as before, this should simplify trade, especially since the country poses no threat. as regards the united arab emirates, it is known that more than 150 000 european nationals are established there and the vast majority of them have seized opportunities for economic activities. in addition, 1.6 million europeans a year visit the uae and in 2014, 230,000 emiratis travelled to europe mainly for business trips and luxury tourism. however, i also question the usefulness of visa-free agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the eu has lost all control over mass immigration and its borders. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to the report, these agreements on visa exemption for short stays should boost tourism and strengthen our trade relations with the uae. these new arrangements will facilitate the movement of entrepreneurs and investors, which will intensify economic links between companies. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union. but at a time when western countries, and france in particular, are facing a very serious terrorist threat, it is absolutely not appropriate to conclude such agreements. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the eu-uae agreement negotiated by the european commission to facilitate the granting of short-stay visas. it allows citizens of the european union and citizens of the united arab emirates to obtain a visa free of charge for the territory of all the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa is for all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. the short-stay visa waiver between eu member states and the uae is an important step forward in removing barriers to business travel and luxury tourism. the agreement is of considerable economic importance at a time when trade between the two parties is worth more than eur 50 million. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the gabriel report aimed to remove the visa requirement for the commonwealth of dominica, vanuatu, trinidad and tobago, samoa, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines and the united arab emirates. these countries do not pose a risk of uncontrolled immigration or of disturbing public order. however, at a time when islamist terrorists are looking for any weakness in our defence in order to attack us, i do not think it is appropriate to exempt certain countries from visas and to facilitate access to our territory from third countries in general. although i am in favour of closer economic ties with these countries, i cannot knowingly take the risk of allowing ill-intentioned people to take advantage of this to undermine european security. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am against visa-free travel for third countries.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of lifting the short-stay visa requirement, i.e. three months over a period of 180 days, for uae nationals. this country is a key commercial and strategic partner for france, particularly in the military sphere, as it hosts a french military base on its territory. the migration risk for this country, whose gdp per capita is equivalent to that of france, is very low. however, beyond the united arab emirates, i question the strategic choice to grant short-stay visa exemptions in a hand-to-hand manner when for some of these countries, especially those in the western balkans, the migration and internal security risk to the member states of the european union is real. there is a regulation which lists a positive list of countries whose nationals are exempt from the short-stay visa requirement. these countries now number 42, including the united states and japan, and will soon be 61. shouldn't this list be revised in the light of international upheavals?
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are designed to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards the united arab emirates, it should be noted that 150 000 eu nationals are established there and most of them work there. around 1.6 million europeans visit the uae each year, and some 230,000 emiratis have travelled to europe, mainly for business and luxury tourism. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates. the european parliament was to take a decision on the conclusions of the agreement between the union and the united arab emirates which was negotiated by the commission. the purpose was to make it easier for people to obtain visas. citizens of both sets will be exempt from visa requirements for stays of up to 90 days for a period of 180 days. this exemption does not apply to persons travelling on business. this recommendation was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-uae agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. according to ms gabriel's report, the country in question poses no threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants is high, with a relatively low visa refusal rate. visa liberalisation simplifies the conditions for travel. however, we have a duty to ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted against this agreement because they are hostile to the short-stay visa exception, which it endorses. visas are required for national security purposes, except for those with our trusted partners, particularly european ones.
in writing. - i voted against this deal. as in the previous cases, this is a series of agreements on the short-stay visa exemption with several countries. the agreement is expected to help boost tourism, and strengthen trade and investment relations. at present, some 150 000 european nationals are established in the uae. as for tourism, 1.6 million europeans visit the uae each year, compared to 230,000 emirati travellers to europe. so obviously things are working very well already. the key to these agreements is trust: the visa refusal rate is very low because countries trust visa applicants. the rapporteur believes that the countries covered by these agreements do not represent a threat, either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security. in view of the mass immigration we are experiencing and which the eu is no longer able to manage, in view of the risks and the recent attacks in france, one can only be surprised, or even worried, by this sudden willingness to open up. maybe the timing isn't right!
in writing. ‒ on the substance of the matter, i am in favour of short-stay visa exemptions to facilitate mobility and travel for citizens of both parties, in this case the uae and each other. i regret, however, that the french overseas departments are excluded. and i am surprised that the eu has chosen the first arab country in the gulf to benefit from this visa exemption. our cultural and social relations with the maghreb are much more developed and democracy is consolidating in tunisia. i'm officially denouncing this whole procedure. only the commission is empowered to negotiate these agreements on behalf of the states and citizens. it informs the european parliament of the state of the negotiations only at the very end of the process. above all, these agreements are implemented even before the european parliament gives its approval or not. the eu has a role to play in this process, and the eu is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam. in these circumstances, i vote against.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on the short-stay visa waiver are intended to intensify trade, increase investment and boost tourism. it is important to note that the visa refusal rate is low for these countries, which according to the report pose no threat either in terms of irregular migration or in terms of security and public order. as regards the united arab emirates, it should be noted that 150 000 eu nationals are established there and most of them work there. around 1.6 million europeans visit the uae every year, and it is estimated that some 230,000 emiratis have travelled to europe, mainly for business trips and luxury tourism. nevertheless, the timing of such agreements, even as the porosity of europe's borders is a breeding ground for terrorism in europe, seems incongruous. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ these agreements provide for visa-free short-stay travel to the listed countries, in order to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. as regards mobility, confidence in visa applicants from these countries is high, with a historically low visa refusal rate. the rapporteur believes that the countries in question do not represent a threat either in terms of illegal migration or in terms of security and public order. however, the question arises whether it is appropriate to conclude visa waiver agreements at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and when the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. the answer is no, hence a vote against.
in writing. ‒ this report on the short-stay visa waiver with the uae may be useful given the intensity of the uae's economic links with the eu, but also its role in the middle east. however, this agreement does not come at the right time, given the bankruptcy of the european authorities in migration policy. i therefore voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the united arab emirates. the aim was to allow visa-free travel for eu and uae nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum stay of 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver between the european union and the united arab emirates. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for nationals of the two parties concerned who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, official service and special passport holders) travelling for all purposes except for gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ this report on the short-stay visa exemption with the united arab emirates comes at the worst possible time, given the failure of the european authorities in migration policy and the geopolitical situation in the middle east. i therefore voted against this agreement.
in writing. ‒ this agreement seals the visa exemption for very short stays and on the basis of reciprocity with the united arab emirates. a way to make it easier for our citizens to travel, whether it's for tourism or business.
in writing. ‒ these agreements on visa-free short-stay visits are expected to boost tourism and strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation would simplify travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitate investment and intensify economic links between businesses. however, the question arises as to whether visa-free agreements are appropriate at a time when the risk of terrorist attacks is real and the european union has lost all control over mass immigration. this change in visa policy is contrary to common sense. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was presented with agreements on the short-stay visa waiver with nine third countries (dominica, vanuatu, trinidad and tobago, samoa, grenada, east timor, saint lucia, saint vincent and the grenadines, and the united arab emirates). the latter justified this exemption, which was surprising to say the least, by the development of economic relations and business travel and the fact that many european nationals are settled there. the european parliament was not regularly informed of the negotiations on these agreements; they were even implemented provisionally without waiting for the ep's decision. i am in favour of the liberalisation of short-stay visas. such agreements facilitate trade between peoples. but the eu's choices in this area are based on no other criteria than strategic and diplomatic issues. the one with the united arab emirates is a symbol of that. i therefore voted in favour of the first eight exemption agreements and abstained on the last one with the united arab emirates.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this decision, which provides for agreements between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. the purpose of this text is to give eurojust the capacity to conclude agreements or working arrangements with the institutions, bodies and agencies created by or on the basis of the treaties. in addition, these agreements provide for the exchange of information, including personal data, and for the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. i am also firmly opposed to any measure aimed at strengthening the powers of eurojust and any supranational institution.
in writing. ‒ decision 2002/187/jha provides for the possibility for eurojust, which represents the premises of a future european public prosecutor's office, to conclude agreements or working arrangements with the agencies, institutions and bodies established by or on the basis of the treaties. such working arrangements or agreements shall allow for the exchange of information, including personal data, and for the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. such agreements and arrangements may only be concluded after consultation by eurojust of the data protection supervisor and authorisation by the council. in order to broaden its scope of cooperation with the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) established by council regulation (ec) no 207/2009, eurojust has initiated a memorandum of understanding with ohim. the memorandum received a favourable opinion from eurojust's supervisory body and was finally approved by the eurojust college on 19 may. i voted against this report because it provides for the strengthening of eurojust's powers.
in writing. ‒ eurojust is one of the many 'european agencies' which have been growing and strengthening in recent years by encroaching on the competences of the member states. i see in this case the prerequisites for a european prosecutor's office, whose legitimacy i question in advance. that is why i am opposed to any extension or strengthening of eurojust's powers and will continue to be opposed to that.
in writing. ‒ this report on the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust provides that eurojust may conclude agreements or working arrangements with the institutions, bodies and agencies established by or on the basis of the treaties. such working arrangements or agreements may concern the exchange of information, including personal data, and the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. they may be concluded only after consultation by eurojust of the joint supervisory body with regard to the data protection provisions and with the approval of the council. eurojust therefore negotiated this memorandum and the supervisory body gave a favourable opinion. i would like to remind you that eurojust is the basis of a european prosecutor's office and i therefore oppose this vote.
in writing. ‒ eurojust is the premises of a european public prosecutor's office (possibility provided for in article 86 (1) (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union). i am therefore opposed to anything that might contribute to its development and strengthen its competence. i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this decision provides that eurojust may conclude agreements with the institutions, bodies or agencies established on the basis of the treaties. these agreements will cover the exchange of data and information, including personal data, and the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. these agreements must be approved by the council and the joint supervisory body consulted beforehand. to strengthen its capacity to cooperate with the office for harmonization in the internal market, eurojust negotiated a memorandum of understanding. the joint supervisory body of eurojust has also given a favourable opinion on this memorandum. since eurojust is the basis of a european public prosecutor's office, we can only question the strengthening of its powers. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes the european parliament's positive opinion on the conclusion by eurojust of a memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust. the memorandum aims to strengthen cooperation between ohim and eurojust in order to better achieve their respective objectives. i voted in favour of the objectives of this report.
in writing. i supported this report which aims to strengthen the capacity for cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and eurojust. this enhanced cooperation will benefit both bodies in order to achieve their respective objectives.
in writing. ‒ this report focused on enabling eurojust to enter into agreements with the institutions established by treaties. eurojust, after consulting the joint supervisory body on information and personal data, could thus see its legal capacity extended. i remain opposed, as are the peoples of europe, to ever greater european integration, especially when it comes to the royal area of justice which is involved. by allowing eurojust to enter into agreements, a further step is taken towards the establishment of a genuine european prosecutor's office. this permanent extension of the powers of the european institutions without any democratic consultation is unacceptable. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i am opposed to any additional responsibilities being taken over by eurojust.
in writing. ‒ decision 2002/187/jha provides for the possibility for eurojust, as the european public prosecutor's office, to conclude agreements or working arrangements with the agencies, institutions and bodies established by or on the basis of the treaties. such working arrangements or agreements may concern the exchange of information, including personal data, and the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. such agreements and arrangements may only be concluded after consultation by eurojust of the data protection supervisor and authorisation by the council. in order to broaden its scope of cooperation with the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) established by council regulation (ec) no 207/2009, eurojust has initiated a memorandum of understanding with ohim. the memorandum received a favourable opinion from the supervisory body of eurojust and was finally approved by the college of eurojust on 19 may 2015. this text would strengthen eurojust's powers, and we are therefore opposed to it. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague kostas chrysogonos on the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. this working arrangement will enable eurojust and the intellectual property office to exchange information and will benefit their collaboration. it will now be easier to fight fraud and counterfeiting in the european union. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ like the other front national meps, i voted against the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. it should be recalled that eurojust is the basis of a european public prosecutor's office. we oppose anything that might strengthen its powers, because justice must remain the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. ‒ meps voted against this report because it aims to strengthen eurojust's powers and is a further step towards the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. but justice is and should remain a sovereign competence of the states.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. eurojust is a european agency whose mission is to promote and strengthen coordination and cooperation between national authorities in the fight against serious crossborder crime. those agreements between eurojust and ohim shall cover the exchange of information, including personal information, and the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. we oppose this agreement on the principle that eurojust is a blueprint for a european prosecutor's office and we oppose its existence. this agreement would strengthen eurojust's powers, and we are therefore strongly opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ the european union judicial cooperation unit, or eurojust, is the european agency responsible for strengthening judicial cooperation between member states. under decision 2002/187/jha, eurojust may conclude agreements with the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies established by the treaties. such agreements shall in particular cover the exchange of information, including personal data. in this case, it is an agreement with the office for harmonization in the internal market. the protection of personal data is taken into account 'this memorandum of understanding does not include the transmission of operational information, including data relating to an identified or identifiable person'. it is mainly a technical agreement, requiring only the approval of the council, while the european parliament plays only an advisory role. i abstain in protest at the lack of power of parliament.
in writing. ‒ decision 2002/187/jha provides for the possibility for eurojust, as the european public prosecutor's office, to conclude agreements or working arrangements with the agencies, institutions and bodies established by or on the basis of the treaties. such working arrangements or agreements may concern the exchange of information, including personal data, and the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. such agreements and arrangements may only be concluded after consultation by eurojust of the data protection supervisor and authorisation by the council. in order to broaden its scope of cooperation with the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) established by council regulation (ec) no 207/2009, eurojust has initiated a memorandum of understanding with ohim. the memorandum received a favourable opinion from the supervisory body of eurojust and was finally approved by the college of eurojust on 19 may 2015. this text would strengthen eurojust's powers, and we are therefore opposed to it. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ this text concerns the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust to strengthen their capacity for collaboration. eurojust may conclude agreements with other institutions or agencies which may relate to the exchange of information, including personal data, and to the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. i am opposed to the adoption of this text because it contributes to the strengthening of eurojust, which is an embryo of the european prosecutor's office and therefore an instrument to undermine the sovereignty of the french nation. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust. the purpose of the meeting was to approve a council decision aimed at improving cooperation between the two bodies by enabling them to set up a system for exchanging information.
in writing. ‒ this memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust is intended to strengthen the capacity of these two bodies to work together. eurojust may conclude agreements with other institutions or agencies on the exchange of information, including personal data, and on the secondment of liaison officers to eurojust. i am opposed to the adoption of this text because it contributes to the strengthening of eurojust, which is an embryo of the european prosecutor's office and therefore an instrument to undermine the sovereignty of the french nation. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it is a purely technical procedure which allows the establishment of a system for exchanging information to improve cooperation between these european bodies. we need to facilitate the flow of information for greater efficiency.
in writing. ‒ it is important to remember that eurojust is the foundation of a european public prosecutor's office. the national front is therefore opposed to anything that might strengthen its powers. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the european commission's proposal to amend regulation no 609/2014 on own resources decisions laying down the rules for the provision of own resources and the measures relating to cash requirements. the text specifies the categories of own resources, the methods for calculating them and the arrangements for the payment of the member states' contributions. it also called for more automation of member states' contributions to the eu budget to avoid them becoming the subject of political negotiations. finally, the report recommends that the annual adjustments be rationalised to bring them into line with vat and gni-based own resources and to simplify and reduce the budgetary burden on the member states and the eu budget. it ensures the smooth management and operation of payments which are sometimes essential for certain economic sectors, and it also perpetuates the current system of eu own resources. i abstained because the proposal preserves the system of own resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because the union must have its own resources under the best possible conditions and it is therefore necessary to lay down the rules under which the member states make these own resources available to the commission. this regulation repeats the rules on the making available of traditional own resources.
in writing. ‒ this text calls for the approval of the european commission's proposal to amend regulation no 609/2014 on own resources decisions, which lays down the rules for making own resources available and the measures to meet cash requirements. it specifies in particular the categories of own resources, the methods of calculating them and the arrangements for the payment of the contributions of the member states. it was agreed to revise this procedure in order to reduce the risk of annual payment delays that the eu and member states have faced in recent years (resulting, for example, in an unprecedented volume of adjustments at the end of 2014). while the report recommends 'automating' member states' contributions to the eu budget to avoid them becoming the subject of political negotiations, the main aim is to streamline the annual adjustments to vat and gni-based own resources in order to simplify and reduce the budgetary burden on member states and to ensure the sound management and smooth functioning of payments. i didn't object to it.
in writing. ‒ this report approves the commission's proposal to amend regulation no 609/2014 on 'own resources decisions' which lays down the rules for making own resources available and the measures to meet cash requirements. following the many annual payment delays faced by the eu and member states in recent years, it was agreed in a commission proposal to revise this procedure. the report calls for more 'automation' of member states' contributions to the eu budget to avoid political conflicts over the timing of payments and to limit member states' discretion over the date of payment of their additional contribution arising from gni adjustments. while the system seeks to streamline the annual adjustments to own resources (vat and gni), this proposal preserves the eu's own resources situation. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the approval of the commission's proposal to amend the regulation laying down the rules for making own resources available. the text specifically calls for the payment of member states' contributions to be automated so that they are not the subject of political negotiations. the aim of these proposals is to reduce the delay in payment of these contributions by limiting the discretion of the member states in setting the timetable. although these measures help to maintain the current system of the union's own resources, we cannot endorse the unprecedented budgetary burdens of member states' contributions. france loses more than 9 billion euros a year between what it receives and what it gives to the european union. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report proposes the european parliament's opinion to the council on the revision of the regulation on the modalities and procedure for making available the traditional own resources, the vat-based own resource and the gni-based own resource and measures to meet cash requirements, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2016. the revision of this regulation is mainly technical for several reasons, starting with the need to apply the new procedure for the annual adjustment of vat and gni own resources, adopted at the end of 2014. the commission also proposes other minor revisions, such as the procedure for calculating interest on amounts made available late. the report calls for greater transparency by giving the european parliament access to information on the calculations. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. measures to encourage member states to respect payment deadlines for their contributions to the union budget are important in order to enable the commission to manage its cash efficiently and reduce payment delays. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the lewandowski and deprez report, which is part of a parliament consultation procedure in which the rapporteurs call for more clarity and transparency in the provision of own resources. i therefore consider that, for the sake of transparency, a report on the calculation and the underlying data of the vat and gni (levy on gross national income) adjustment balances should be presented to parliament every year. the same applies to the dates and amounts of the contributions paid by the member states to the budget of the european union. finally, i think that the own resources system is too complex, and that is why a fundamental reform is necessary in the context of the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the commission's proposal to change the rules on transferring resources to the eu from member states' budgets to be approved. the report addresses important points, in particular by specifying the methods of calculation and the payment of contributions. the aim is to simplify and reduce the budgetary burden of member states' contributions to the eu. by adjusting the contributions requested more precisely, it makes it possible to bring these levies more into line with the real economic situation of the member states. nevertheless, while it reduces the levies, this report perpetuates the very important transfer of sovereign states by a european union which has been hurting them for almost twenty years. i am attached to the sovereignty of the nation states, and i can only say that too much money paid to the european union is an illegitimate tithe. the effective representation of the french people in european decisions is more than limited, and its taxation cannot be justified. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because it preserves the european union's own resources.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the approval of the european commission's proposal to amend regulation no 609/2014 on 'own resources decisions' which lays down the rules for making own resources available and the measures to meet cash requirements. this report shall specify the categories of own resources, the methods of calculating them and the arrangements for the payment of the contributions of the member states. the report endorses the commission's proposal, but calls for more automation of member states' contributions to the eu budget to avoid them becoming the subject of political negotiations. the report therefore considers the commission's proposal appropriate to fill in, where appropriate, the gaps in the current regulation with a view to ensuring that member states realise their contribution to the eu budget. the proposal also seeks to streamline the annual adjustments to the vat and gni-based own resources in order to simplify and reduce the budgetary burden on the member states and the eu budget and thus ensure the proper management and functioning of payments which are sometimes essential for certain economic sectors. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues gérard deprez and janusz lewandowski on the making available of traditional own resources, the vat-based own resource and the gni-based own resource and other measures. parliament called for greater clarity and transparency in the eu's own resources system, for example by determining when the amounts will be made available. the report also calls for greater access to the relevant calculation methods and information. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the modalities and procedure for making available the traditional own resources, the vat-based own resource and the gni-based own resource and the measures to meet cash requirements. while the aim is to streamline the annual adjustments to vat and gni-based own resources in order to simplify and reduce the budgetary burden on member states and the eu budget (especially at the end of the year) and thus ensure the proper management and functioning of payments which are sometimes essential for certain economic sectors, this proposal preserves the current eu own resources system.
in writing. ‒ by joining the european union, each state commits itself to making a contribution to the common budget each year in proportion to its wealth. the report submitted to us sets out the terms and procedure for making the traditional own resources (vat-based own resources and gni-based own resources) available and the measures to meet cash requirements. it lays down the practical arrangements for the establishment of traditional own resources, the storage of supporting documents, administrative cooperation, the rate applicable to the own resource based on gni, the accounting to be kept for own resources, the timetable for making available and settling claims, and the provisions relating to cash management and non-recoverable amounts. this is a technical text which does not deal with the calculation of the amount of own resources contributions but only with the way in which they are collected. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the approval of the european commission's proposal to amend regulation no 609/2014 on 'own resources decisions' which lays down the rules for making own resources available and the measures to meet cash requirements. this report shall specify the categories of own resources, the methods of calculating them and the arrangements for the payment of the contributions of the member states. the report endorses the commission's proposal, but calls for more automation of member states' contributions to the eu budget to avoid them becoming the subject of political negotiations. the report therefore considers the commission's proposal appropriate to fill in, where appropriate, the gaps in the current regulation with a view to ensuring that member states realise their contribution to the eu budget. the proposal also seeks to streamline the annual adjustments to the vat and gni-based own resources in order to simplify and reduce the budgetary burden on the member states and the eu budget and thus ensure the proper management and functioning of payments which are sometimes essential for certain economic sectors. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ the deprez report calls for the approval of the commission's proposal to amend regulation no 609/2014, known as 'own resources decisions', which lays down the rules for the provision of own resources and the measures to meet cash requirements, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2016. however, the procedures for the annual adjustment of own resources based on vat and gni will no longer be applicable after its entry into force. however, in order to reduce the risk of annual payment delays that the eu and member states have faced in recent years (resulting, for example, in an unprecedented volume of adjustments at the end of 2014), it was agreed in a commission proposal to revise this procedure. while the aim is to streamline the annual adjustments to own resources in order to simplify and reduce the budgetary burden on the member states and the eu budget (especially at the end of the year) and thus ensure the proper management and functioning of payments, which are sometimes essential for certain economic sectors, the proposal also preserves the current eu own resources system. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the modalities and procedure for making available the traditional own resources, the vat-based own resource and the gni-based own resource and on measures to meet cash requirements. the text, which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on budgets, underlines the need for reform of the own resources system, which is too complex and not very transparent.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the approval of the commission's proposal to amend regulation no 609/2014, known as 'own resources decisions', which lays down the rules for the provision of own resources and the measures to meet cash requirements and which will enter into force at the beginning of 2016. however, the procedures for the annual adjustment of own resources based on vat and gni will no longer be applicable after its entry into force. however, in order to reduce the risk of annual payment delays that the eu and member states have faced in recent years (resulting, for example, in an unprecedented volume of adjustments at the end of 2014), it was agreed in a commission proposal to revise this procedure. while the aim is to streamline the annual adjustments to own resources in order to simplify and reduce the budgetary burden on the member states and the eu budget (especially at the end of the year) and thus ensure the proper management and functioning of payments which are sometimes essential for certain economic sectors, this proposal also preserves the current eu own resources system, which i oppose. so i refrained.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report because we are calling for more transparency in the provision of own resources, and in particular in the calculation methods. this is an important element in improving our regulatory tool.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor of the greek supreme court has requested the waiver of georgios kyrtsos' immunity in connection with a possible legal action relating to an alleged offence. this is a complaint from the labour inspectorate of east attica for non-payment of part of the salary in 2013 of a former employee of two press companies managed at the time by georgios kyrtsos. the alleged infringement is a priori not linked to the duties of georgios kyrtsos as an mep. the act of pursuit shall not concern an opinion or vote delivered by him in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu. therefore, it cannot be inferred that the underlying intention of the criminal proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member, in particular from the fact that the prosecution goes back several years before the assumption of parliamentary office. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate as the committee had recommended in the background.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of this greek mep from the epp who is accused of non-payment of an employee, and this before his election to the european parliament in may 2014.
in writing. ‒ i wanted to support this report on the european parliament's decision on the request for waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrstos, a greek mep of the epp. mr kyrstos is the subject of a legal action following a complaint by the labour inspectorate of east attica for non-payment of wages. according to the indictment, part of the 2013 salary of a former employee of two newspaper companies, of which georgios kyrstos was the manager at the time, was not paid. the applicant also waived his right to be heard. as can be seen, this alleged offence does not appear to have any connection with mr kyrstos' parliamentary duties in the european parliament, but rather concerns his previous management duties for two press companies. in the present case, mr kyrstos is not being prosecuted for an opinion, vote or political opinion within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu. the criminal proceedings do not therefore appear to be based on the intention to harm the political activity of this member (fumus persecutionis) and that is why i am in favour of the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ georgios kyrtsos is accused of not paying part of his former employee's salary in 2013 when he was the manager of two newspaper companies. this is a complaint from the labour inspectorate of east attica and it is the greek supreme court which is the origin of the request to lift his parliamentary immunity. this alleged offence has no connection with his mandate as an mep since it was clearly committed when he was the manager of his company, i.e. several years before he took up his post in the european parliament. the prosecution does not therefore concern an opinion which he has delivered in the course of his parliamentary activity. therefore, the intention of this procedure is not to prejudice his political activity. i therefore voted to waive his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ the public prosecutor's office of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos. he had not paid two employees when he was, before his term as an mp, the head of a press group. this offence was committed long before he took office. moreover, it does not concern an opinion or a vote delivered by him in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. i am committed to the proper functioning of justice when an inquiry is opened and does not interfere with the freedom of expression of a member of parliament, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is not linked to any specific activity of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague evelyn regner on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos. this colleague is accused of not paying part of the salary of one of his former employees. the accusation therefore concerns mr kyrtsos as a former business manager and not as an mep. there is no reason to believe that the underlying intention of the criminal proceedings is to harm his political activity, given that the indictment dates back several years before he took office as an mp.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted to lift this parliamentary immunity, because the facts complained of (non-payment of an employee before the election of the mp) have nothing to do with the mandate.
in writing. - i voted for this immunity waiver. georgios kyrtsos is being prosecuted in greece for an alleged offence dating back to 2013: he was accused by a former employee of not paying him part of his salary. this complaint dates from before mr kyrtsos's mandate began and clearly has nothing to do with his mandate as an mep. we have no evidence that the purpose of this complaint is to harm his work as an mp, so we support his waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of the greek mep georgios kyrtsos. he is accused of failing to pay part of the salary of one of his former employees at two newspaper companies, of which he was the manager at the time. since the facts date back to 2013, a time when georgios kyrtsos was not an mep, and so that the labour law can be applied. i vote for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the prosecutor of the greek supreme court has requested the waiver of georgios kyrtsos' immunity in connection with a possible legal action relating to an alleged offence. this is allegedly a complaint from the labour inspectorate of east attica for non-payment of part of the 2013 salary of a former employee of two newspaper companies then managed by georgios kyrtsos. the alleged infringement is a priori not linked to the duties of georgios kyrtsos as an mep. the act of pursuit shall not concern an opinion or vote delivered by him in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu. therefore, it cannot be inferred that the underlying intention of the criminal proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member, in particular from the fact that the prosecution goes back several years before the assumption of parliamentary office. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ following a complaint by the greek labour inspectorate, the prosecutor's office of the supreme court asked for the waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos, mep. the latter is being sued for the non-payment of part of the 2013 salary of a former employee of a newspaper company whose manager was the mep in question. since the alleged offence is unrelated to his duties as a member of the european parliament, occurred before he took up his duties and is not a prosecution for political reasons, the member cannot claim immunity. so i decided to vote in favour of lifting immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of georgios kyrtsos. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ following a complaint by the greek labour inspectorate, the prosecutor's office of the supreme court asked for the waiver of the immunity of georgios kyrtsos, mep. the latter is being sued for the non-payment of part of the 2013 salary of a former employee of a newspaper company whose manager the mep in question was. since this alleged offence is unrelated to his duties as a member of the european parliament, occurred before he took office and is not politically motivated, i decided to vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ in view of the circumstances and the facts alleged against this member of parliament and having been unable to establish the existence of a fumus persecutionis in the proceedings against him, the juri committee unanimously recommended that the plenary should lift his parliamentary immunity. so i followed that advice.
in writing. ‒ the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou, mep, in connection with a possible legal action relating to a defamation charge. stelios kouloglou allegedly made statements in the press in 2010 about the integrity of some prison staff in patras while he was a reporter. the alleged infringement is a priori not connected with the duties of stelios kouloglou as an mep and does not concern an opinion or a vote delivered by him in the exercise of his parliamentary duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu. there is no reason to believe that the underlying intention of the criminal proceedings is to harm the mp's political activity, as the prosecution goes back several years before he took office as a member of parliament. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate, as recommended by the committee responsible for the subject-matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of this greek syriza mp who is accused of having defamed prison staff before his election to the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european parliament's decision on the request for waiver of immunity of stelios kouloglou. mr kouloglou is being prosecuted by the supreme court of the hellenic republic for alleged defamation. the alleged events date back to 2010, when mr kouloglou allegedly made statements in the press questioning the integrity of certain members of the prison staff in patras. at the time of the facts, mr kouloglou was a journalist, mainly responsible for the production of television reports. in the circumstances, it must be concluded that the alleged infringement does not appear to be related to the duties of stelios kouloglou as a member of the european parliament and does not appear to concern an opinion, opinion or vote issued by him in the exercise of his duties. therefore, there is no reason to believe that the underlying intention of the criminal proceedings is to harm his political activity. that is why i think that the greek judiciary must be allowed to proceed as it should and i am in favour of lifting that immunity.
in writing. ‒ stelios kouloglou is accused of defamation for questioning the integrity of some prison staff in patras in 2010 when he was a journalist in charge of producing television reports. the request for the waiver of his parliamentary immunity was initiated by the greek supreme court. this alleged offence has no connection with his mandate as an mep since it was clearly committed when he was a journalist, i.e. several years before he took up his post in the european parliament. the prosecution does not concern an opinion which he has expressed in the course of his parliamentary activity. therefore, the intention of this procedure is not to prejudice his political activity. i therefore voted to waive his parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ the public prosecutor's office of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the immunity of stelios kouloglou. he is being prosecuted for defamation, which occurred when he was a journalist. this offence was committed long before he took office. moreover, it does not concern an opinion or a vote delivered by him in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. i am committed to the proper functioning of justice when an inquiry is opened and does not interfere with the freedom of expression of a member of parliament, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because the facts complained of are not linked to any specific activity of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague pavel svoboda on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou. this procedure is a formality which, without ruling on the merits of the case, is intended to enable the judicial authorities to carry out their investigative work. the report was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou, considering that the accusation concerns statements he allegedly made in the press in 2010 about the integrity of some members of the prison staff in patras when he was a journalist. the accusation clearly has no connection with mr kouloglou's duties as an mep. there is no reason to believe that the underlying intention of the criminal proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member, given that the prosecution goes back several years before he took office in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted to lift this parliamentary immunity, because the alleged facts (defamation of prison staff before the election of the mp) have nothing to do with the mandate.
in writing. - i voted for this immunity waiver. mr kouloglou is being prosecuted in greece on charges of defamation. the alleged acts date back to 2010, when mr kouloglou was a journalist. he is reported to have made comments about the integrity of certain members of the prison staff in patras. the alleged offence does not appear to be connected with mr kouloglou's term as an mp, the facts dating back several years before his election. we're authorizing his immunity waiver.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of the greek mep stelios kouloglou. he is accused of defamation against the prison staff of patras, following statements he allegedly made in the press in 2010 about the integrity of some of the said staff. since he was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the alleged events but was working as a journalist in charge of television reporting, and in order to shed light on this case, i am voting for the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou, mep, in connection with a possible legal action relating to a defamation charge. stelios kouloglou allegedly made statements in the press in 2010 about the integrity of some prison staff in patras while he was a reporter. the alleged infringement is a priori not connected with the duties of stelios kouloglou as an mep and does not concern an opinion or a vote delivered by him in the exercise of his parliamentary duties within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu. there is no reason to believe that the underlying intention of the criminal proceedings is to harm the political activity of the member, given that the prosecution goes back several years before the assumption of parliamentary office. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ mr kouloglou is accused of having made defamatory statements in 2010 about the integrity of certain members of the prison staff in patras when he was a journalist. the greek prosecutor's office therefore requested that his parliamentary immunity be waived. since the alleged facts are unrelated to his activity as an mep, since they occurred before he took office, and the prosecutions were not moved for political reasons, i decided to vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of stelios kouloglou. any request addressed to the president of the european parliament by the authorities of a member state for the waiver of the immunity of a member shall be examined by the committee responsible. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee.
in writing. ‒ mr kouloglou is accused of having made defamatory statements in 2010 about the integrity of some members of the prison staff in patras when he was a journalist. the greek prosecutor's office therefore requested that his parliamentary immunity be waived. the facts complained of have no connection with his activity as an mep they occurred before he took office and the prosecution is not motivated by political reasons: i decided to vote in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ in view of the circumstances and the facts alleged against this member of parliament and having been unable to establish the existence of a fumus persecutionis in the proceedings against him, the juri committee unanimously recommended that the plenary should lift his parliamentary immunity. so i followed that advice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from finland. the european fund was set up to provide assistance to workers suffering the consequences of a crisis in a given sector or the changes in the economic structures of the member states brought about by globalisation and free trade. the aim is to mobilise the fund for 1 200 workers made redundant by 69 companies in the computer programming sector in finland. i therefore support this aid for the conversion of these workers who are actually suffering the disastrous consequences of european economic policy.
in writing. ‒ the zanni report (edf) concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant in finland. the fund may be used to help workers who are suffering the consequences of a crisis in a particular sector or the changes in the economic structures of the member states brought about by globalisation and free trade. a link must be established between the redundancies and the economic and financial crisis. in this case, a contribution of eur 2.636 million is requested for the reintegration into the labour market of 1 200 workers made redundant by 69 companies in the computer programming sector in finland. finland is facing a crisis of competitiveness linked to high labour costs and the inability to devalue to counter competition from emerging countries, particularly in the telecommunications sector. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i regret the institution of this instrument at european level and i await the planned revision of the legal basis. however, since this mechanism is widely requested, i will allow myself the opportunity, on a case-by-case basis, to vote in favour of its mobilisation.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to the hypocritical system of the 'globalization adjustment fund', which is emblematic of a european union that behaves like a pyromaniac firefighter, but i voted in favour of this report which proposes to release €2.636 million to help 1,200 finns to get back to work after losing their jobs in the it sector in crisis. these redundancies are indeed linked to international competition, against which the european union is constantly disarming the companies and employees of our member states. this request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund echoes the one voted in july 2015 for the former employees of broadcom communications finland.
in writing. i wanted to support this report which aims to provide support for the 1 603 employees of 69 companies in finland working in the information and communication technology sector. once again, the savage globalization has taken its toll and finnish workers have paid the price for the massive relocation of this sector to countries with cheaper labour, such as china, india or taiwan. in finland, the number of ict enterprises has decreased by 3% in 2014 alone, i.e. by 1 500 people. in the face of this growing precariousness of workers across europe, the globalisation adjustment fund appears to be a meagre but necessary compensation, especially as finland has been particularly hit by the crisis in the ict sector. in 2011, nokia made large-scale redundancies, first laying off 1,000 people in salo in 2012, then another 3,700 in late 2012 and early 2012. 13 other 600 layoffs followed in 2014 in the pc game development industry it is.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to grant finland a financial contribution of eur 2.636 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the redundancies of 1 200 employees by 69 companies in the computer programming sector. the purpose of this aid is to facilitate the reintegration of workers made redundant. these redundancies are directly linked to the current economic crisis and unfair competition from emerging countries. finland is also facing an unprecedented competitiveness crisis, which is mainly due to the particularly high cost of labour. firstly, this application fulfils the conditions for the granting of financial contributions from the egf. on the other hand, we believe it is important to help finnish workers who have been made redundant and who, like in france, are suffering the disastrous consequences of unbridled globalisation. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ parliament decided to accept the request from finland for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the employees of computer programming, a company which has been severely affected by the employment consequences of globalisation. the aid amount is eur 2 623 200. the dismissed employees will receive training aimed at reintegration into the labour market and job search. the request of finland is justified in view of the significant global competition in the field of consultancy and computer programming. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to mobilise eur 2 623 200 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support the 1 200 computer programmers in finland who have been made redundant between july 2014 and april 2015. the egf helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis. the egf shall have a maximum annual budget of eur 150 million for the period 2014-2020. i have supported this report because i believe that one of the purposes of the european union budget is to help the declining sectors to move towards a more sustainable economic model.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which is intended to support employees suffering from the consequences of globalisation. with this vote we are helping to provide eur 2 623 200 to almost 1 600 workers made redundant in the information technology sector in finland.
in writing. ‒ this request for mobilisation of the egf comes in a highly competitive sector, where technological developments and even disruptions require extremely rapid adaptations accompanied by extremely high-performance research and development. the nokia group apparently lacked this economic intelligence, failing to anticipate competition from other telephone giants, and leading to the downfall of a large number of subcontractors and start-ups that were supervising the flagship. thousands of finns have had their jobs transferred to non-european countries, leading to many redundancies. the report highlights the precautions to be taken in the conversion measures proposed to workers. the measures financed must aim to improve the prospects for jobseekers so that they can enter the labour market in the future. however, i also wonder about the operation of the egf - which is particularly interesting and useful - but which is carried out after the fact and with too long a delay. i would like to raise the question of the conditions - particularly fiscal ones - governing the establishment of such activities. i would ask that, in view of the continuing changes in the issue of globalisation, further consideration be given to all the eligibility criteria.
in writing. ‒ this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund concerned the decision to grant aid to finland to overcome the competitiveness crisis it is experiencing. the aid fund was needed here, as a true admission of the failure of globalisation. finland, because of its low competitiveness due to high labour costs and the fact that it cannot devalue its currency, is suffering from globalisation. its telecommunications sector, faced with competition from third countries, has been particularly affected. twenty-nine finnish companies have laid off more than 1 200 workers in this sector. the fund could provide up to eur 2.6 million for their reintegration. although i am opposed to supranational financial mechanisms, i can only see the disasters of globalisation on employment and the quality of the services offered. the fund is only a palliative, but it does tend to correct certain difficult situations. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is aimed at helping a european company.
in writing. ‒ the zanni report (edf) concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant in finland. the fund may be mobilised to help workers suffering the consequences of a crisis in a given sector, or of changes in the economic structures of the member states brought about by globalisation and free trade. a link must be established between the redundancies and the economic and financial crisis. the aim is to provide a contribution of eur 2.636 million for the reintegration into the labour market of 1 200 workers made redundant by 69 companies in the computer programming sector in finland. finland is facing a crisis of competitiveness linked to high labour costs and the inability to devalue to counter competition from emerging countries, particularly in the telecommunications sector. this mechanism of ex post facto aid is beneficial, even if it only supplements the disastrous economic policy imposed by the eu. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr marco zanni, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund at the request of finland in favour of redundant employees. the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs. the fund will in this case allocate eur 2 623 200 to 1 603 redundant employees. this amount will be used to finance training, counselling or recruitment bonuses to help recruitment of these dismissed workers. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 69 it companies. the finnish authorities claim that the redundancies in question have their origin in the evolution of nokia's situation in recent years, which has had a major impact on the it sector in finland. while the development of computer systems for this company provided employment for thousands of finns, these activities have now been transferred to non-european countries.
in writing. ‒ fn meps voted in favour of this allocation of €2.636 million, as it aims to help 1,200 workers made redundant in finland in the it sector to reintegrate into the world of work.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant in finland. the globalisation adjustment fund may be mobilised to provide assistance to workers suffering the consequences of a crisis in a particular sector, or of changes in the economic structures of member states brought about by globalisation and free trade. a link must be established between the redundancies and the economic and financial crisis. the case concerned the release of eur 2,636 million for the reintegration into the labour market of 1 200 workers made redundant by 69 companies in the computer programming sector in finland. finland is facing an unprecedented competitiveness crisis linked to high labour costs and the inability to devalue to counter competition from emerging countries, particularly in the telecommunications sector. while this mechanism of ex post aid may appear as a compassionate way of offsetting the disastrous economic policies of the eu, it seems essential for the conversion of workers who must not suffer the consequences of these policies. i therefore logically voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this mobilisation of the egf, as i had already done in the empl committee. this will allow €2.636 million to be allocated for the reintegration of the 1 200 workers made redundant in the it sector in finland. we support this aid to workers who are suffering the consequences of the policies of brussels and the international competition into which the eu is dragging us.
in writing. ‒ this is the umpteenth case of mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and it is yet another example of the damage done by the european union's industrial and trade policy. in the union's new language, this means mitigating the 'potential negative consequences' of free trade policy in order to better accompany it. 69 finnish smes had to close their doors and lay off a total of 1 603 employees. the 2011 takeover of nokia by microsoft caused a wave of layoffs in the subcontracting companies. this year, we were presented with another case of a company specialising in the design of mobile and electronic products. finland, a long-standing specialist in electronics and it in general, is being hit hard by outsourcing in this sector. the rapporteur does note the stagnation and the relocations to asia, but he does not criticise the union's policy of at least being permissive with the social dumping practices that have devastating effects on jobs and smes in europe. in the end, the emff therefore fulfils its role as 'aid for relocation' very well. i shall abstain, however, in order not to deprive finnish workers of this fund.
in writing. ‒ the zanni report (edf) concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant in finland. the fund may be mobilised to help workers suffering the consequences of a crisis in a given sector, or of changes in the economic structures of the member states brought about by globalisation and free trade. a link must be established between the redundancies and the economic and financial crisis. the aim is to provide a contribution of eur 2.636 million for the reintegration into the labour market of 1 200 workers made redundant by 69 companies in the computer programming sector in finland. finland is facing a crisis of competitiveness linked to high labour costs and the inability to devalue to counter competition from emerging countries, particularly in the telecommunications sector. this mechanism of ex post facto aid is beneficial, even if it only supplements the disastrous economic policy imposed by the eu. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the zanni report concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant in finland. the case concerned the release of eur 2,636 million for the reintegration into the labour market of 1 200 workers made redundant by 69 companies in the computer programming sector in finland. finland is facing an unprecedented competitiveness crisis linked to high labour costs and the inability to devalue to counter competition from emerging countries, particularly in the telecommunications sector. while this mechanism of ex post aid may appear as a compassionate way of offsetting the disastrous economic policies of the eu, it seems essential for the conversion of workers who must not suffer the consequences of these policies. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). between july 2014 and april 2015, 1,603 employees were laid off from 69 it companies in finland. the aim is to mobilise eur 2.6 million to help support these employees. the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation (business closures, relocation). it is designed to respond to mass redundancies in a particular sector or by an enterprise with at least 500 employees and has a budget of €150 million for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ the zanni report concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers made redundant in finland. the case concerned the release of eur 2,636 million for the reintegration into the labour market of 1 200 workers made redundant by 69 companies in the computer programming sector in finland. finland is facing an unprecedented competitiveness crisis linked to high labour costs and the inability to devalue to counter competition from emerging countries, particularly in the telecommunications sector. while this mechanism of a posteriori aid is never more than a sad, compassionate way of offsetting the disastrous economic policies of the eu, it seems indispensable for the conversion of workers who must not suffer the consequences of these policies. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of almost €2.5 million. the process of globalisation has opened up european markets to international competition, bringing economic and structural changes for our businesses. the union has set up a european globalisation adjustment fund to mitigate the effects of globalisation on european economies, but above all on workers. it was also important to show european solidarity with this country and this company.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation adjustment fund can be mobilised to provide assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of a crisis in a particular sector, or from changes in the economic structures of member states brought about by globalisation and free trade. finland is also facing an unprecedented competitiveness crisis linked to high labour costs and the inability to devalue to counter competition from emerging countries, particularly in the telecommunications sector. while this mechanism of ex post aid may appear as a compassionate way of offsetting the disastrous economic policies of the eu, it seems essential for the conversion of workers who suffer the consequences of these policies. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted its position at first reading on the reform of the european trade mark system. the proposed reform includes a lower level of fees, the introduction of a compensation mechanism allowing member states to recover the costs of setting up services and procedures related to the application of the eu trade mark, the rationalisation of various technical provisions and the strengthening of cooperation between the office and national offices. the increase in the number of grounds for refusal of designations of origin and geographical indications thus allows for greater protection of the economic operators concerned. there was also an increase in the absolute grounds for refusal of designations of origin, geographical indications, traditional terms for wines, traditional specialities guaranteed and plant variety rights. this text streamlines the way the office operates. it allows lower fees and costs for economic operators and greater protection. i voted against the proposal to reject the council's position tabled by the efdd group.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it makes it easier to register a trade mark in the european union and aims in particular to fight counterfeiting more effectively.
in writing. ‒ this is the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading. the juri committee recommended that parliament approve the council's position at first reading without amendments. there is no final vote on second reading and the vote in plenary was only on an amendment tabled by the efdd group. i voted against this amendment because i think the council's position is in the right direction. in addition to a welcome streamlining of the procedures and operation of the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) in consultation with the national bodies, this text allows a reduction in fees and costs for economic operators and greater protection for both producers and consumers.
in writing. i voted against the rejection amendment tabled by the efdd group concerning the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading on the reform of the european trade mark system. this reform includes a proposal for a directive, which includes measures which are beneficial for our companies, such as a lower level of tax, or the introduction of a compensation mechanism allowing member states to recover the costs of setting up services and procedures linked to the application of the eu trade mark. in addition, the absolute grounds for refusal will be extended to cover designations of origin, geographical indications, traditional urban terms, traditional specialities guaranteed and plant variety rights, and the grounds for refusal will be extended to cover designations of origin and geographical indications; this is a good thing, because it means that the economic operators concerned are better protected. finally, the council text is designed to streamline the office's operating procedures, which will reduce fees and costs. i could therefore only oppose the efdd group's rejection amendment and support the council's position.
in writing. ‒ ohim (office for harmonisation in the internal market) is an agency of the european union responsible for managing the systems for the registration of trade marks and designs in the 28 member states. its objective is to ensure uniform protection of trade marks, designs and models throughout the union. in addition to streamlining the procedures and operation of the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim), the text reduces the fees and costs associated with the registration of an eu trade mark for economic operators and provides them with greater protection (enhanced cases of refusal of a trade mark in the event of a conflict with earlier rights (designations of origin, geographical indications, traditional terms). i voted in favour of this text, voting against the rejection amendment tabled by another political group.
in writing. ‒ the only amendment to reject the proposal, tabled by the efdd group, concerns the reform of the community trade mark system. the aim of the proposal is to adapt the terminology to the requirements of the lisbon treaty and to provide for a lower level of fees and the establishment of a compensation mechanism allowing member states to recover the costs of procedures relating to the application of the eu trade mark. the reform also has the merit of helping to rationalize costs and improve cooperation between the office and the national offices. the text also aims to protect certain sectors of activity which derive their income from specific know-how often linked to a geographical origin. the reform will benefit the vineyard workers in particular. i therefore voted against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to make trademark registration cheaper, faster and more reliable for businesses. the text proposes to revise the relevant eu legislation in order to streamline and harmonise the procedures for registering national and eu trade marks and to modernise the registration requirements, for example by making it easier to register new types of trade marks (e.g. sounds). the text proposes, in particular, a significant reduction in taxes, a balancing rule on goods in transit to ensure the fight against counterfeiting and the establishment of a general compensation mechanism to offset the costs of national offices in the framework of the european trade mark system. i have voted in favour of this report as an additional commercial tool for promoting and defending european products in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which provides for the modernisation of the existing trade mark registration systems in the european union. these measures will make it possible to bring the practices of the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) closer to those of the national offices of the member states in order to achieve greater clarity and efficiency.
in writing. ‒ by deciding to review its system of protection of community trade marks for its enterprises, in particular smes, the union has just corrected a legal vacuum in its legislation. customs authorities will now be able to prohibit the entry into the eu of goods bearing a community registered trade mark without authorisation. the new rules will also make registration cheaper, quicker and provide greater legal certainty. this modernisation of the community trade mark system was essential to cope with unfair competition from companies outside the community. this responds to a growing expectation that the 'trademarks' themselves should be better protected throughout europe. in 2012, 107 900 applications were filed, double the number registered by the european trade mark office 10 years earlier. as a reminder, the branded goods industry directly accounts for 21% of employment in europe and 34% of european gdp. finally, it should be noted that generic medicines will be exempt under the trips agreements of the wto, which allow them to benefit from a specific regime, in line with our international commitments to developing countries.
in writing. ‒ this report examined the recommendation on the second reading of the reform of the european trade mark system. the report, which has already been approved by the commission at first reading and remains unchanged, proposes a number of changes to harmonise the member states' trade mark laws. by changing the terminology, in accordance with the lisbon treaty, by lowering the taxes and by introducing a system of reimbursement of the costs incurred by the member states for the establishment of this european union trade mark, this report is rather encouraging. in addition, the national front has long been waiting for and supporting the increased protection of designations of origin, traditional terms for wines and traditional specialities guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it allows economic operators to reduce their costs.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted its position at first reading on the reform of the european trade mark system. this reform contains a proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks and a parallel proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark. the proposed reform includes lower fees, the introduction of a compensation mechanism allowing member states to recover the costs of setting up services and procedures related to the application of the eu trade mark, the rationalisation of various technical provisions and the strengthening of cooperation between the office and national offices. the increase in the number of grounds for refusal of designations of origin and geographical indications thus allows for greater protection of the economic operators concerned. there was also an increase in the absolute grounds for refusal of designations of origin, geographical indications, traditional terms for wines, traditional specialities guaranteed and plant variety rights. this text streamlines the functioning of the office and allows a reduction in fees and costs for economic operators as well as greater protection. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the deletion amendment on the text concerning the european trade mark. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing techniques. trademark holders must be able to oppose the introduction of products from outside the european union when these products take on the characteristics of a registered european trademark because counterfeiting contributes to weakening our european businesses and endangers citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative package for the reform of trademark law, which is essential for innovation and the fight against counterfeiting in europe. we have achieved a significant reduction in the cost of registering trade marks in the union and the introduction of simplified and harmonised procedures for the benefit of our companies. the cornerstone of this reform is the strengthening of the means of combating counterfeiting, since trademark holders can now oppose the introduction into the union of products from third countries if these products bear, without authorisation, a mark identical to the european trademark duly registered. therefore, without violating our obligations in international trade, we have sent a strong message that we must protect ourselves against counterfeit goods that weaken our businesses and endanger our fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of reforming the european trade mark system. the new system proposed includes a lower level of fees, the introduction of a compensation mechanism allowing member states to recover the costs of setting up services and procedures related to the application of the eu trade mark, as well as the rationalisation of various technical provisions and the strengthening of cooperation between the office and the national offices. this text, in addition to streamlining the procedures and operation of the office, allows a reduction in fees and costs for economic operators as well as greater protection. that is why i voted against the rejection amendment tabled by the efdd group.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this rejection amendment and, although there was no final vote on this recommendation for second reading, i am in favour of this reform. the reform includes a proposal for a directive to approximate the laws of the member states on trade marks and a parallel proposal to amend the community trade mark regulation. this reform will streamline the procedures and operation of the office, reduce costs and charges for economic operators and provide greater protection for these operators.
in writing. ‒ a trademark is used to distinguish the products and services of a company. the laws of the member states on trade marks were partially harmonised by a directive in 1988 and then codified in 2008. in parallel with the national trademark systems, an autonomous system of unitary rights registration has been established, which produces the same effects throughout the union. the council has strengthened the means of protecting european products. the commission therefore extends the absolute grounds for refusal to designations of origin. the same applies to geographical indications, traditional terms for wines and traditional specialities guaranteed. and even for the right to name a plant. and plant variety rights. generic medicines are not, however, clearly excluded from the fight against counterfeiting. so even if these measures may facilitate the establishment of protectionist solidarity in the future, i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted its position at first reading on the reform of the european trade mark system. this reform contains a proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks and a parallel proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark. the proposed reform includes lower fees, the introduction of a compensation mechanism allowing member states to recover the costs of setting up services and procedures related to the application of the eu trade mark, the rationalisation of various technical provisions and the strengthening of cooperation between the office and national offices. the increase in the number of grounds for refusal of designations of origin and geographical indications thus allows for greater protection of the economic operators concerned. there was also an increase in the absolute grounds for refusal of designations of origin, geographical indications, traditional terms for wines, traditional specialities guaranteed and plant variety rights. this text streamlines the functioning of the office and allows a reduction in fees and costs for economic operators as well as greater protection. i therefore vote against the proposal to reject the council's position.
in writing. ‒ the vote concerns an amendment rejected by the efdd group of a text to validate the council's position on the reform of the european trade mark system. this position includes a proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks and a parallel proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark in order to bring positive law into line with the requirements of the treaty of lisbon. the system provides for a lower level of fees, the establishment of a compensation mechanism allowing member states to recover the costs of setting up services and procedures related to the application of the eu trade mark (5% of the annual revenue of the office and the possibility of doubling the percentage in case of budgetary surplus). the text extends the grounds for absolute refusal of pdos and pgi to traditional terms for wines, traditional specialities guaranteed and plant variety rights, thus allowing greater protection for operators. i voted against the amendment. i am not going to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the final adoption of the draft reform of european trade mark law, introduced by the commission more than two years ago. the aim is to make european businesses more competitive by introducing simplified, harmonised and less costly procedures for registering a trade mark. the reform will also strengthen the defence of trade mark proprietors by allowing them to oppose the introduction of products from third countries when they bear, without authorisation, a mark identical to the duly registered european trade mark.
in writing. ‒ the vote concerns an amendment rejected by the efdd group of a text to validate the council's position on the reform of the european trade mark system. this position includes a proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks and a parallel proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark in order to bring positive law into line with the requirements of the treaty of lisbon. the system provides for a lower level of fees, the establishment of a compensation mechanism allowing member states to recover the costs of setting up services and procedures related to the application of the eu trade mark (5% of the annual revenue of the office and the possibility of doubling the percentage in the event of budgetary surplus). the text extends the grounds for absolute refusal of pdos and pgi to traditional terms for wines, traditional specialities guaranteed and plant variety rights, thus allowing greater protection for operators. i voted against the amendment. i am not going to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the rejection of the texts presented by the council. an agreement has finally been reached and it is our duty to support it, to move legislation and reflection forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to foster innovation and economic growth by making trade mark registration systems more accessible and efficient across the union. with this vote we are proceeding with the reform of trademark law which will make it possible to reduce significantly the costs of registering trademarks in the european union and to introduce simplified and harmonised procedures. finally, this reform will help to strengthen our means of combating counterfeiting. trade mark proprietors will now be able to oppose the introduction into the union of products from third countries if those products bear, without authorisation, a mark identical to the european trade mark which has been registered previously. it is therefore a question of strengthening our competitiveness and guaranteeing consumer safety.
in writing. ‒ in addition to the adaptation of terminology to the requirements of the lisbon treaty, the new system proposed includes a lower level of fees, the introduction of a compensation mechanism allowing member states to recover the costs of setting up services and procedures related to the application of the eu trade mark (5% of the office's annual revenue and the possibility of doubling the percentage in the event of a large budget surplus), as well as the rationalisation of various technical provisions and closer cooperation between the office and the national offices. it should be noted that the absolute grounds for refusal have been extended to cover designations of origin, geographical indications, traditional terms for wines, traditional specialities guaranteed and plant variety rights, and that the grounds for refusal have been extended to cover designations of origin and geographical indications, thus allowing for greater protection of the economic operators concerned. i therefore voted against the rejection amendment tabled by the efdd group.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted its position on the reform of the european trade mark system. the reform proposal renews the definition of a trade mark by removing the requirement of a graphic representation, this to allow the registration of trade marks of new forms, such as sound marks, movement marks, holograms without potentially excluding olfactory or taste marks. the trade mark sign shall be represented in a clear, precise, distinct and intelligible manner. the text shall also list the grounds for refusal or invalidity of the trade mark. the right for member states to decide to carry out checks on grounds of refusal of the right of use, the establishment of an administrative procedure before each national office to oppose the registration of a trade mark on the basis of the grounds of use and the establishment of an administrative procedure before each national office in respect of revocation or invalidity of a trade mark are also provided for. this text protects innovation and provides greater protection for economic operators, particularly as regards pgi. i voted against the motion for a resolution tabled by the efdd group.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendment calling for the proposal to be rejected, in other words in favour of the council's position, which seems to me to be in the right direction, both for producers and for consumers.
in writing. i opposed the rejection amendment tabled by the efdd group on the recommendation of the juri committee to adopt the council's position on the reform of the european trade mark system. the recast directive will facilitate better protection for all trade marks in the union, in particular by proposing a new definition of a trade mark which removes the requirement of a graphic representation, which will allow the registration of trade marks of new forms such as sound trade marks; an adaptation to the current technological reality, especially as this is framed by the requirement of a sign represented in an intelligible and durable way. it is a framework that promotes transparency and access to brand understanding for all. the proposal for a directive also clearly sets out the grounds for refusal or invalidity of a trade mark, such as lack of distinctive character. finally, the member states are allowed to decide to carry out checks on grounds of their own motion, to institute an administrative procedure before each national office to oppose the registration of a trade mark on the basis of the grounds of its own motion, and to recognise national competence, which also encourages innovation.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks aims to facilitate the registration, administration and uniform protection of trade marks in the union. this text promotes innovation (new definition of a trademark eliminating the requirement of a graphic representation thus allowing the creation of sound marks, movement marks, holograms, etc.) while allowing greater protection for economic operators, particularly french ones (strengthening cases of refusal of a trademark in the event of a conflict with earlier rights (appellations of origin, geographical indications, traditional terms)). i voted for this text in the committee on legal affairs. i therefore voted in favour of this text, voting against the amendment rejecting the text tabled by another group.
in writing. ‒ the only amendment to reject the proposal, tabled by the efdd group, concerns the reform of the community trade mark system. it is intended to bring national laws closer together and to contribute to the protection of trade marks in the european union. the text also proposes to redefine a trade mark by removing the requirement of a graphic representation. a trademark can now be defined by its sound or even its olfactory and gustatory characteristics, thus allowing a better framework for intellectual property. nevertheless, the sign would have to be presented in a clear, distinct way. while encouraging innovation, the text also provides better protection for economic operators who derive income from specific know-how often linked to a geographical origin. the reform will benefit the vineyard workers in particular. i therefore voted against the rejection amendment.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report aims to make trademark registration cheaper, faster and more reliable for businesses. it proposes a revision of the european directives for the harmonisation of national trade mark laws, in order to modernise the current provisions and to strengthen legal certainty while clarifying the rights conferred by trade marks. the text also seeks to improve cooperation between national offices and the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim). an agreement was also reached on goods in transit, giving the holder of a registered trade mark the right to oppose the importation of goods from third countries into the territory of the european union when an unauthorised trade mark identical to the duly registered european trade mark is affixed to these products. this duty shall not apply if the final destination of the goods is not a member state of the union and if the proprietor of the trade mark is unable to prove that his trade mark is validly registered in the country of final destination. i have voted in favour of this report as an additional commercial tool for promoting and defending european products in the world.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a recast of the 2008 directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. the proposal provides for the amendment of obsolete provisions, the further alignment of national procedures with the community trade mark system and the creation of a legal basis for cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and the national offices of the member states.
in writing. ‒ by deciding to review its system of protection of community trade marks for its enterprises, in particular smes, the union has just corrected a legal vacuum in its legislation. the customs authorities will now be able to prohibit the entry into the territory of the union of goods bearing a community registered trade mark without authorisation. the new rules will also make registration cheaper, quicker and provide greater legal certainty. this modernisation of the community trade mark system was essential to cope with unfair competition from companies outside the community. this responds to a growing expectation of the "trademarks" themselves to be better protected throughout the european territory. in 2012, 107 900 applications were filed, double the number registered by the european trade mark office 10 years earlier. as a reminder, the branded goods industry directly accounts for 21% of employment in europe and 34% of european gdp. finally, it should be noted that generic medicines will be exempt under the trips agreements of the wto, which allow them to benefit from a specific regime, in line with our international commitments to developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is in favour of better protection of trade marks.
in writing. ‒ the council adopted its position on the reform of the european trade mark system. this reform includes a proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks and a proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark. the reform proposal renews the definition of a trade mark by removing the requirement of a graphic representation, this to allow the registration of trade marks of new forms, such as sound marks, movement marks, holograms without potentially excluding olfactory or taste marks. the trade mark sign shall be represented in a clear, precise, distinct and intelligible manner. the text shall also list the grounds for refusal or invalidity of the trade mark. the right for member states to decide to carry out checks on grounds of refusal of the right of use, the establishment of an administrative procedure before each national office to oppose the registration of a trade mark on the basis of the grounds of use and the establishment of an administrative procedure before each national office in respect of revocation or invalidity of a trade mark are also provided for. this text protects innovation and provides greater protection for economic operators, particularly as regards pgi. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the deletion amendment on the text on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks because i consider that this text is legitimate. the aim of harmonizing national trademark laws is to increase legal certainty and clarify standards. better cooperation between national offices and the intellectual property office should be supported. with this text the european parliament has achieved a sharp reduction in the fees for registering european trade marks and the simplification and harmonization of procedures. the national offices will also receive financial compensation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative package for the reform of trademark law, which is essential for innovation and the fight against counterfeiting in europe. we have achieved a significant reduction in the cost of registering trade marks in the union and the introduction of simplified and harmonised procedures for the benefit of our companies. the cornerstone of this reform is the strengthening of the means of combating counterfeiting, since trademark holders can now oppose the introduction into the union of products from third countries if these products bear, without authorisation, a mark identical to the duly registered european trademark. therefore, without violating our obligations in international trade, we have sent a strong message that we must protect ourselves against counterfeit goods that weaken our businesses and endanger our fellow citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of reforming the european trade mark system, so i voted against the rejection amendment tabled by the efdd group. the reform aims to facilitate the registration, administration and uniform protection of trade marks in the european union. it gives a new definition of a trade mark by removing the requirement of a graphic representation, thereby allowing the registration of trade marks of new forms, such as sound, movement or holograms, without potentially excluding olfactory or gustatory marks. the right for member states to decide to carry out checks on grounds of refusal of the right of use, the establishment of an administrative procedure before each national office to oppose the registration of a trade mark on the basis of the grounds of use and the establishment of an administrative procedure before each national office in respect of revocation or invalidity of a trade mark are also provided for. this text promotes innovation and provides greater protection for operators.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this rejection amendment and, as in the previous vote, i am in favour of this reform, although there is no final vote. the aim of this revision is to approximate the laws of the member states on trade marks in order to facilitate the registration, administration and uniform protection of eu trade marks. this text will encourage innovation and provide greater protection for economic operators.
in writing. ‒ the new trade mark directive aligns the main procedural rules on the registration of trade marks in the member states with those of the eu trade mark system. registered trade marks should thus enjoy the same protection in the legal systems of all member states. this text will facilitate the establishment of a solidarity-based protectionism. i would point out, however, that generic medicines are not clearly excluded from this directive. that's why i'm abstaining
in writing. ‒ this reform contains a proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks and a proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 207/2009 on the community trade mark. the reform proposal renews the definition of a trade mark by removing the requirement of a graphic representation, this to allow the registration of trade marks of new forms, such as sound marks, movement marks, holograms without potentially excluding olfactory or taste marks. the trade mark sign shall be represented in a clear, precise, distinct and intelligible manner. the text shall also list the grounds for refusal or invalidity of the trade mark. the right of member states to decide, to carry out checks on grounds of refusal of registration, to institute an administrative procedure before each national office to oppose the registration of a trade mark on the basis of the grounds of refusal and to institute an administrative procedure before each national office in respect of revocation or invalidity of a trade mark is also provided for. this text protects innovation and provides greater protection for economic operators, particularly as regards pgi. i therefore vote against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to revise the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks in order to facilitate the registration, administration and uniform protection of trade marks in the union n.the aim is to give a new definition of the trademark, taking account of technological developments (removal of the requirement for graphic representation to allow the recognition of sound, olfactory marks, etc.) however, the sign must be represented in a clear, precise, distinct, easily accessible, intelligible, durable and easily recognizable way. the grounds for refusal are listed exhaustively (lack of distinctive character, or conflicts between the mark and earlier rights) and it should be noted that the absolute grounds for refusal extend to the designations of origin. states will be able to carry out checks on relative grounds for refusal of registration, to institute an administrative procedure before each national office to oppose the registration of a trade mark on the basis of the relative grounds and to institute an administrative procedure before each national office in respect of revocation or invalidity of a trade mark. i voted against the amendment rejecting this text which favours economic innovation and allows greater protection of the rights of the consumer. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the final adoption of the draft reform of european trade mark law, introduced by the commission more than two years ago. the aim is to improve the competitiveness of european businesses by introducing simplified, harmonised and less costly procedures for registering a trade mark. the reform will also strengthen the defence of trade mark proprietors by allowing them to oppose the introduction of products from third countries when they bear, without authorisation, a mark identical to the duly registered european trade mark.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to revise the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks in order to facilitate the registration, administration and uniform protection of trade marks in the union the aim is to give a new definition of the mark taking account of technological developments (removal of the requirement for graphic representation to enable the recognition of sound or olfactory marks by example) and to provide a new definition of the term 'mark' (the 'mark' is the name of a product or service). (e) however, the sign must be represented in a clear, precise, distinct, easily accessible, intelligible, durable and easily recognizable way. the grounds for refusal are listed exhaustively (lack of distinctive character, conflicts between the mark and earlier rights, extension of absolute grounds for refusal to designations of origin, etc.). states will be able to carry out checks on relative grounds for refusal of registration, to institute an administrative procedure before each national office to oppose the registration of a trade mark on the basis of the relative grounds and to institute an administrative procedure before each national office in respect of revocation or invalidity of a trade mark. i voted against the amendment rejecting this text which favours economic innovation and allows greater protection of the rights of the consumer. the commission has already
in writing. ‒ i voted against the rejection of the texts presented by the council. an agreement has finally been reached and it is our duty to support it, to move legislation and reflection forward.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the recasting of the directive on the laws of the member states relating to trade marks. the laws of the member states were only partially harmonised by directives 89/104/eec and 2008/95/ec and the purpose of the recast proposal is therefore to modernise and improve the current provisions, to achieve optimum harmonisation of national laws and procedures and to foster cooperation between the national offices and the ohim.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks aims to facilitate the registration, administration and uniform protection of trade marks in the union. the draft proposal for a recast gives a new definition of a trade mark by removing the requirement of a graphic representation, thereby enabling the registration of trade marks of new forms. the grounds for refusal or invalidity relating to the trade mark itself, in particular the absence of distinctive character, or to conflicts between the trade mark and earlier rights are also listed exhaustively, and it is worth noting the extension of the absolute grounds for refusal to designations of origin, geographical indications, traditional wine names, traditional specialities guaranteed and plant variety rights, as well as the extension of the grounds for refusal to designations of origin and geographical indications, thus allowing for greater protection of the economic operators concerned. i therefore voted against the rejection amendment tabled by the efdd group.
in writing. ‒ the text starts from the observation that the fight against illegal fishing is increasingly being relied on by states, as flag states do not effectively control fishing operations. states may take the following measures: pre-port entry notification requirements; restrictions on entry into port and on landings or transhipments of fish; restrictions on supplies and services; requirements on documentation to be provided; inspections; blacklisting of vessels; trade measures and sanctions. the aim of the text is to implement the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) to make the fight against illegal fishing more effective. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation because it aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, so as to bring economic, environmental and social benefits.
in writing. ‒ implement the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) to improve the fight against illegal fishing. how? by relying mainly on the services of the state of the port of landing, which are better able to monitor ships than those of the flag state. i voted in favour of this common sense proposal.
in writing. i have chosen to support this text, which aims in particular to combat illegal fishing by means of control measures when landing in a port of a member state. i am glad that this text is increasingly putting more trust in port states to combat illegal fishing, whereas flag states have little control over the operations of fishing vessels flying their flag. the report by mr christensen also gives port states the opportunity to take common sense measures such as: the requirement of prior notification of entry into port or use of designated ports; restrictions on entry into port and on landings or transhipments of fish; restrictions on supplies and services; documentation requirements, etc. these are all sensible protectionist measures, which stem from the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) to improve the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ since the aim is to tackle illegal fishing more effectively, which is endangering the level of fish stocks in the north-east atlantic area, and the proposed provision to carry out checks at ports of landing rather than relying on flag states' vigilance is more likely to tackle this illegal fishing effectively, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to transpose the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) into european law in order to effectively combat illegal fishing and preserve fisheries resources in the area. to achieve these objectives, it is planned to rely on the port states of landing whose authorities are better able to monitor the operations of vessels. this measure is intended to fill the gaps of flag states which by definition cannot effectively control the activities of the vessels concerned. this report clearly addresses the shortcomings in the existing legislation. the requirements for documentation, inspections and the establishment of a blacklist of vessels will give the authorities the tools to effectively combat illegal fishing. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries (cmpea), to which the european union is a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, so as to bring economic, environmental and social benefits. the recommendations of the napec are binding and must be transposed into union law. this report allows the incorporation into union law of the amendments to the control regime adopted by nacp in its recommendation 15/2013 and its recommendation 9/2014 as amended by recommendation 12/2015, which have become binding on the contracting parties to nacp and consequently on the european union. as the amended version of the recommendation was due to enter into force on 1 july 2015, i voted in favour of the commission's proposal without amendments in order to speed up the adoption process.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this legislative report is to incorporate the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) into eu law. under the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, the neafc makes recommendations to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area. at its annual meetings in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the neafc adopted a set of recommendations to implement a control and enforcement regime at port level, with regard to transhipment and landing activities, control of foreign fishing vessels and infringement procedures. since they have become binding on the members of the nacp, the union must incorporate them into its law. i voted in favour of the recommendations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to transpose into union law the control and enforcement regime adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc), to which the union is a contracting party. these measures are indeed intended to ensure the optimum use of fisheries resources and their long-term conservation in the north-east atlantic area.
in writing. ‒ this report on the conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic focuses in particular on bringing the current regime into line with the fao agreement on illegal fishing. by transferring control of fishing activities from the flag state of the vessel in question to the port state in which it is established, the report encourages more precise control. many fishing vessels fly the flag of a country which only remotely controls the activities of a vessel based far away. by allowing ports, which can effectively control ships, this report encourages more pragmatism. i am committed to the rational exploitation of fisheries resources and therefore to effective control of fishing activities, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it strengthens the fight against illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ the text starts from the observation that port states are increasingly being relied upon to combat illegal fishing because flag states do not effectively control fishing operations. states may take the following measures: pre-port entry notification requirements; restrictions on entry into port and on landings or transhipments of fish; restrictions on supplies and services; requirements on documentation to be provided; inspections; blacklisting of vessels; trade measures and sanctions. the aim of the text is to implement the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) to make the fight against illegal fishing more effective. the text therefore stresses the position of the states in the port of landing, which are better placed to monitor fishing vessels. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ole christensen on the control and enforcement regime applicable to fisheries in the north-east atlantic. the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries aims to conserve fisheries resources through the rational use of fisheries in this area. i therefore approved the european commission's proposal to incorporate the recommendations of the convention into european law, the european union being a contracting party to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the control and enforcement regime applicable to fisheries in the north-east atlantic. the objective is the conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, through the control and enforcement regime adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (nafc). the text aims in particular to combat illegal fishing by means of control measures when landing in a member state port. the main aim is to implement the recommendations of the neafc to improve the fight against illegal fishing. the main reliance is on the port states of disembarkation, which are better placed to monitor ships than flag states.
in writing. ‒ meps voted in favour of this text because it improves the fight against illegal fishing by involving the states of the ports of landing, and not just the flag states of the offending vessels, in this mission. the fight against illegal fishing is fundamental to defending the interests of french fishermen.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the aim here is to transpose the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) into eu law through parliament and the council. these recommendations will help to combat illegal fishing by supporting measures taken by the ports of landing, which are better able to monitor vessels. these measures include, but are not limited to: prior notification of entry into or use of a port, restrictions on landing or transhipment, inspections, trade measures and sanctions, etc.
in writing. ‒ the report presented aims to incorporate into community law the international regulations on the reporting and control of ships involved in transhipment operations. transhipment is a common practice whereby catches from one vessel that is still fishing are unloaded at sea onto another vessel that is about to land in a port. these operations create a disconnect between the fishing vessel and the landing party. they can be conducted in international waters and sometimes between two ships of different flags. this has the potential to make control and police operations more complex. they make systematic declarations at the port of landing compulsory for both vessels participating in a transhipment operation and for receiving vessels. the system thus restores the traceability of fish and thereby increases the efficiency of controls. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the text starts from the observation that port states are increasingly being relied upon to combat illegal fishing because flag states do not effectively control fishing operations. states may take the following measures: pre-port entry notification requirements; restrictions on entry into port and on landings or transhipments of fish; restrictions on supplies and services; requirements on documentation to be provided; inspections; blacklisting of vessels; trade measures and sanctions. the aim of the text is to implement the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) to make the fight against illegal fishing more effective. the text therefore stresses the position of the states in the port of landing, which are better placed to monitor fishing vessels. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to conserve and optimise the use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, through the control and enforcement regime adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) the aim of the directive is to combat illegal fishing by means of control measures when landing in a port of a member state. the cpane recommendations are transposed into union law and the cpane the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already done so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the control and enforcement regime applicable in the fisheries sector. the aim is to incorporate into european law the recommendations of the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries (cfap), to which the union has given its support as a contracting party. these recommendations concern in particular the reporting of transhipments and the control of foreign fishing vessels. the aim of the neafc is to ensure optimum conservation and use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area to ensure the long-term economic and social benefits of fishing and the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague ole christensen on the control and enforcement regime applicable to fisheries in the north-east atlantic. the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, so as to bring economic, environmental and social benefits. the recommendations of the napec are binding and must be transposed into union law. at its annual meetings in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the nacp adopted a number of recommendations. the latter were adopted by nacp with the support of the union. they must now be incorporated into union law by means of the proposed regulation.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to conserve and optimise the use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, through the control and enforcement regime adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) the aim of the directive is to combat illegal fishing by means of control measures when landing in a port of a member state. the cpane recommendations are transposed into union law and the cpane the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already done so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a technical transposition of binding recommendations we must therefore rapidly update our legislation, particularly in the area of fisheries policy and, specifically, future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries.
in writing. ‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries (cmpea), to which the european union is a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, so as to bring economic, environmental and social benefits. the recommendations of the napec are binding and must be transposed into union law. i therefore voted in favour of this text, which aims to incorporate into a european regulation the amendments made by recommendations from the nacp. these include the notification of transhipments and the port of landing, a number of provisions on port state control of foreign fishing vessels and infringement procedures.
in writing. ‒ the main objective is to implement the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc) to improve the fight against illegal fishing. the main reliance is on the port states of disembarkation, which are better placed to monitor ships than flag states. i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ there are many challenges to the protection of marine biodiversity and sustainable development in fisheries. the report adopted by the european parliament deals with fisheries in the north atlantic area and the development of a more environmentally friendly activity. it establishes a system of control and enforcement in this area which encourages states to take binding measures to prevent and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. it includes measures to better control vessels landing in ports in controlled areas or to modernise the system to digital use, which is more capable of being monitored. this report therefore helps to protect endangered fisheries resources and to ensure their optimal use. the eradication of illegal fishing activities can enhance fishing activities that respect the rights of fishermen and smallholders, while protecting the environment and marine fauna. this is the joint action which, if properly implemented, can ensure the future. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing preferential trade measures for the countries and territories participating in and linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application to bosnia and herzegovina. brussels wants to give bosnia the means to comply with the requirements for eu membership. bosnia has always been troubled by internal tensions and is notorious for having a well-established mafia on its soil. my colleagues from the national front and i are totally opposed to its accession. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is intended to encourage bosnia and herzegovina to respect democratic principles, the rule of law and human rights, as well as the protection of minorities.
in writing. ‒ regulation no 1215/2009 adopted in 2009 granted exceptional trade advantages until 31/12/2015 to the balkan countries in general and to bosnia in particular, pending in particular the signature of a contract for the accession of bosnia and herzegovina to the european union. the commission's text, like parliament's, proposes to extend these exceptional measures of asymmetrical liberalisation of trade between the union and bosnia until 31 december 2020, at a time when bosnia is in a state of near-permanent political crisis, due in particular to a deleterious climate in which both the mafia and the islamists are thriving. the union's objective is still bosnia's accession to the european union. i voted against such aberrations, of course.
in writing. i voted against this text which, contrary to its title, advocates the extension of the exceptional trade measures in favour of bosnia and herzegovina until 31 december 2020 with a view to accession. once again, the european union is trying to cover up its failures with an ever more frenzied race towards enlargement, and so the report also proposes an asymmetrical liberalisation of trade between the union and bosnia: that is to say, the regime will be favourable to the trade of bosnia and herzegovina - a country plagued by drug trafficking and mafia rule - but in no way to the union, which is already struggling in its exports. under the guise of a major declaration of intent on respect for human rights, the doors of our market and our territory are being opened wide to a country plagued by great instability, without any commercial benefit being gained. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity.
in writing. ‒ given the political situation in bosnia and herzegovina, which is in near-permanent crisis, i see no interest for the european union in extending the expired exceptional trade agreements with that country. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ since 2000, the countries of the western balkans have benefited from autonomous trade measures (acms) from the european union. these mca constitute a unilateral preferential arrangement which allows them unlimited access to the union market. the text advocates extending these trade measures which are beneficial to these countries until 2020 in order to give them the time needed to align these preferences with those provided for in the saa (stabilisation and association agreement) which implies reciprocity between the two parties. the text, however, provides for the suspension of these preferential measures for bosnia, which has not yet agreed to adapt its trade agreements to take account of trade with croatia, which is now a member of the union. the european union is trying above all to preserve through this vote the possible accession of bosnia to the union, which we are firmly opposed to. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. i supported this text which proposes several changes to the original regulation of the autonomous trade measures (acm) concluded between the union and bosnia and herzegovina. the text will thus benefit both parties as it proposes to extend the system of preferences granted to bosnia and herzegovina until 2020 while introducing a human rights safeguard clause.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina are governed by an interim agreement on trade pending the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement currently under ratification. as such, bosnia benefits from trade preferences coupled with 'autonomous trade measures', trade concessions granted unilaterally by the union, allowing almost all exports to enter the union without customs duties or quota restrictions. following croatia's accession to the european union in 2013, bosnia was obliged to adapt its international agreements. however, sarajevo has still not made this adjustment and is therefore not fulfilling its obligations towards the union. the european union has therefore decided to suspend its trade preferences. these will be restored when the eu-bosnia talks have resulted in an agreement taking into account the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ this report sought to extend exceptional trade measures in favour of countries in the process of joining the european union. this was bosnia. by thus extending aid to the balkans, and in particular to bosnia, the european union is thus keeping alive its idea of one day bringing that country into the union. i am firmly opposed to the enlargement of the union and its area of freedom of movement, and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is in line with the planned accession of bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing preferential trade measures for the countries and territories participating in and linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application to bosnia and herzegovina. brussels wants to give bosnia the means to comply with the requirements for membership of the european union. bosnia has always been troubled by internal tensions and is notorious for having a well-established mafia on its soil. we are therefore totally opposed to its membership. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the suspension of the exceptional trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina. regulation 1215 adopted in 2009 granted exceptional trade advantages until 31 december 2015 to the balkans in general and to bosnia in particular, pending in particular the signature of a contract for bosnia's accession to the european union. the union wishes, through this vote, to help bosnia and, above all, to keep alive the possibility of its accession. bosnia is a state in almost permanent political crisis where a large mafia is established. i am therefore totally opposed to its membership.
in writing. ‒ fn meps voted against this text because it extends the exceptional measures of asymmetrical trade liberalisation between the eu and bosnia until the end of 2020, while interfering in the internal affairs of that country.
in writing. - i voted against it. the report suggests that the exceptional trade measures currently in place between the union and bosnia and herzegovina should be maintained. the main purpose of extending these measures is to keep alive the idea of bosnia and herzegovina's accession to the european union. we are formally opposed to this eastward enlargement of the european union and to the accession of this country.
in writing. ‒ trade between the union and the western balkan countries is liberalised by a number of stabilisation and association agreements (saas) and an interim agreement (ia) in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. in addition, kosovo (which is not yet covered by an saa) and the whole region benefit from autonomous trade measures (atms) granted by the union since 2000. the csfs constitute a unilateral preferential arrangement for the western balkans. the report proposes to extend the current preferences until the end of 2020 with the exception of bosnia and herzegovina for which the commission proposes that the csms are not automatically extended but are made conditional on bosnia and herzegovina's agreement on the union methodology for the adaptation of the interim agreement. the agreement provides for the liberalization of 15 products considered by bosnia to be sensitive to its economy. i am voting against this text which seeks to impose liberalism on third countries by force and blackmail.
in writing. ‒ report on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing preferential trade measures for the countries and territories participating in and linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process and suspending its application to bosnia and herzegovina. brussels wants to give bosnia the means to comply with the requirements for membership. bosnia has always been troubled by internal tensions and, to add to this, is notorious for having a well-established mafia on its soil. we are therefore totally opposed to its membership. so i voted no.
in writing. ‒ this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 which granted exceptional trade advantages until 31 december 2015 to the balkans in general and to bosnia in particular, pending in particular the signing of a contract for bosnia's accession to the eu. the eu is now considering, through this vote, helping bosnia and above all maintaining the possibility of bosnia's accession to the eu. as i am opposed to the accession of this country, which is in a permanent state of political crisis and where corruption is endemic, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for the suspension of the exceptional trade measures granted to bosnia and herzegovina. recognised as a potential candidate for accession to the union in 2003, bosnia and herzegovina signed a stabilisation and association agreement on 16 june 2008 under which it accepted the conditions for accession to the union. this agreement shall apply from 1 june 2015. since bosnia and herzegovina has not yet agreed to adapt the trade concessions granted to it under that agreement, the preferences granted to that country should be suspended as from 1 january 2016.
in writing. ‒ the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 which granted exceptional trade advantages until 31 december 2015 to the balkans in general and to bosnia in particular, in particular pending the signing of a contract for bosnia's accession to the eu. the eu now intends, through this vote, to continue to help bosnia and above all to maintain the possibility of bosnia's accession to the eu. as i am opposed to the accession of this country, which is in a permanent state of political crisis and where corruption is endemic, i have decided to vote against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the suspension of the exceptional trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina. trade between the union and the western balkan countries is liberalised by a number of stabilisation and association agreements (saas) and an interim agreement (ia) in the case of bosnia and herzegovina. in addition, the region benefits from autonomous trade measures (atms). three changes have just been made by the european commission. first, the current preferences will be extended until the end of 2020. the new 'human rights clause' allows for the suspension of preferences in the event of serious and systematic violations of the fundamental principles of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. finally, a possible suspension of the csfs for bosnia and herzegovina as from 1 january 2016 will be possible as long as an interim agreement to take account of the traditional preferential trade between bosnia and croatia has not been taken into account. because of this deadlock and the damage to the union's commercial interests, i am in favour of not automatically extending the mfa with regard to bosnia-herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ the eu wishes to help bosnia through this vote, but above all to safeguard bosnia's eu accession prospects. we are totally opposed to its membership. i am voting against this text.
in writing. ‒ trade between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina is currently governed by an interim agreement which is asymmetrical in favour of the latter, particularly for sensitive agricultural products. from the eu's point of view, the accession of croatia to the union on 1 july 2013 was a game changer and the commission called on bosnia to open its markets more. in the midst of the economic and social crisis, bosnia refused to do so for political reasons, due to the weakness of its economy (high unemployment, large chronic trade deficits, toxic "aid" from the imf, etc.). in the name of so-called 'harm to the commercial interests of the union', the commission, rather than helping a fragile country in the midst of a political, economic and social crisis, wants to bring bosnia to its knees by means of trade retaliatory measures. i voted against this intolerable blackmail.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the uae and europol, which provides for exchanges of information such as expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. i think it would be a good idea to establish an agreement on strategic cooperation with the united arab emirates. the report is also a step in the right direction, since it contains no provision on the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ europol wants to conclude an agreement with the united arab emirates on cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the agreement provides for exchanges of information such as expert reports, general reports, analysis results, information on criminal investigations and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. this agreement does not contain any provisions on the protection of personal data. europol considers that the uae is becoming a hotbed for financial crime (vat fraud, money laundering, etc.). many criminals would have found refuge there. i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ according to europol, the uae is becoming a major centre for financial and economic crime (vat fraud, money laundering, etc.) and many criminals have found refuge there. europol has therefore requested this strategic cooperation agreement against serious crime and terrorism. the terms of cooperation governed by the agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations, but without any exchange of personal data. i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which reflects europol's desire to conclude an agreement with the united arab emirates on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism .given the current context and the drama of recent events, such cooperation appears indispensable, especially as it provides for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in certain criminal investigations. we have a lot of imperative procedures that we have missed in the last few years. i only regret that they are not extended to other countries that could be strategic partners in the fight against terrorism. finally, since the agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, it seems all the more relevant to me to support this will of europol to ensure that the data of the persons concerned are not used for the purposes of the criminal investigation. i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ given that, according to europol, the uae is increasingly becoming a centre for financial and economic crime (vat fraud, money laundering, etc.) and that many criminals are believed to have found refuge there, and since the strategic agreement contains no provision on the exchange of personal data, but only provides for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations, which seems to me to be entirely appropriate to the situation, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the conclusion of an agreement between europol and the united arab emirates on operational and strategic cooperation to increase effectiveness in the fight against and prevention of crime. this cooperation includes both exchanges of information on criminal investigation procedures, methods of crime prevention and participation in training activities. unlike the agreement with bosnia and herzegovina, this agreement does not involve exchanges of personal data. as the united arab emirates is increasingly confronted with economic and financial crime, it seems to me that it is absolutely right to help them in the best way possible in the fight against this scourge. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the european parliament's positive opinion on the conclusion by the european union of a new agreement to strengthen police cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. our aim is to ensure that the parties to the agreement fully comply with data protection and european police standards. i have voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be balanced.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text for the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and the european police office (europol). it is essential that the european union strengthen its cooperation with third countries to face these global challenges. the exchange of information with the united arab emirates must therefore be strengthened in order to combat terrorism effectively.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to promote cooperation between the european union and the united arab emirates against terrorism and big banditry. by enhancing cooperation through, inter alia, the exchange of information, analysis of common strategies, information on criminal investigation procedures and participation in joint training activities, the report encourages more effective action in the fight against the growing crime in the gulf country. furthermore, the report does not contain any provisions on the exchange of personal information. i am as committed to the protection of personal data as i am to the fight against financial crime, and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is in favour of a better fight against terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ if i believe the explanatory statement in mrs mussolini's report, this strategic cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates is motivated by the increasingly important role of the latter in economic and financial crime and the presence on their soil of many criminals involved in these operations, who take refuge there. in these circumstances, the pursuit and apprehension of these criminals does indeed require an exchange of information and cooperation. france has already concluded agreements with the uae in the late 2000s on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and cooperation in internal security. as for the emirates, they're already cooperating extensively with interpol, it seems. so this agreement may not be of much interest to my country, but it is not necessarily the case for all the member states of the european union. i also disagree with the conclusion by europol, a mere agency, even if it requires the formal approval of the council. however, i will not oppose it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the mussolini report on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the uae and europol. the aim of this agreement is to support the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in the prevention of organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime. the current situation shows how essential cooperation in these fields is. the strategic agreement also contains no provision on the exchange of personal data, which should reassure those who feared that the personal data of european citizens would be transferred to a state whose level of data protection is not equivalent to that of the european union.
in writing. ‒ europol wants to conclude an agreement with the united arab emirates on cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the agreement provides for exchanges of information such as expert reports, general reports, analysis results, information on criminal investigations and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. it is regrettable that this agreement does not contain any provisions on the protection of personal data. europol considers that the uae is becoming a target for financial and economic offenders. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague alessandra mussolini on strategic cooperation between the united arab emirates and europol in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the agreement aims to promote cooperation between the european union and the emirates in the prevention of organised crime and terrorism in particular. this is essential today to take effective action and protect the population. however, this strategic agreement does not concern the exchange of personal data. this resolution was adopted by a large majority, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the uae and europol. this is a strategic agreement, not an operational one. the strategic agreement does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data, which would be unacceptable. according to europol, the uae is increasingly becoming a centre for financial and economic crime (vat fraud, money laundering, etc.). many criminals would have found refuge there.
in writing. ‒ the fn mps voted in favour of this agreement with the united arab emirates because it is part of a strategy to combat terrorism.
in writing. ‒ europol wishes to conclude an agreement with the united arab emirates on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the intention is justifiable, and so are the terms of this agreement: they provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, reports, the results of strategic analyses, and information on criminal investigation procedures. the agreement would also allow for the exchange of information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. finally, the strategic agreement does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data, which would be unacceptable and would of course have made me oppose this text. for these various reasons, i voted in favour of this report, which is part of the policy of combating crime and terrorism which i support.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the european union has taken a good initiative by establishing strategic cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates to combat serious crime and terrorism. this agreement provides for the exchange of information and support in the event of specific criminal investigations. although this text is appropriate for us because the uae is becoming a centre of financial and economic crime where many criminals find refuge, it should be stressed that this text does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data, which is unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the united arab emirates. yet, the report states that "the country is becoming increasingly central to economic and financial crime. the profits from criminal activities such as vat fraud, intra-eu fraud to the failing operator and money laundering have been reinvested in the uae, and the main criminals involved in these operations have taken refuge in the country". so how do we fight white-collar crime and those who contribute to it? in fact, the report fails to specify that this willingness to cooperate with the uae is directly correlated with the forecasts of european exports to these states (+ 2.1% for france in 2014 for 4.1 billion euros). this shows the utter hypocrisy of the european union, which is the second largest arms exporter to the region, even as investigative reports by journalists and ngos show that these same arms are then sold or traded to fundamentalist rebel groups and terrorists. i vote against this unjust bill.
in writing. ‒ europol wants to conclude an agreement with the united arab emirates on cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the agreement provides for exchanges of information such as expert reports, general reports, analysis results, information on criminal investigations and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. it is regrettable that this agreement does not contain any provisions on the protection of personal data. europol considers that the uae is becoming a target for financial and economic offenders. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the conclusion of an agreement between europol and the united arab emirates on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism this cooperation would be based on exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations, but not the exchange of data to the member states. the cooperation is motivated by the fact that the uae is increasingly harbouring white collar criminals, who are engaged in financial and economic crime (vat fraud, white collar crime, money laundering, theft, fraudulent trading, etc.). i have therefore voted against the proposal. i am in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on strategic cooperation between the uae and europol. the aim is to improve the fight against serious crime and terrorism by organising action and mutual cooperation between the competent authorities in the member states and the uae.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the conclusion of an agreement between europol and the united arab emirates on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism this cooperation would be based on exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations, but not the exchange of data to the member states. the cooperation is motivated by the fact that the uae is increasingly harbouring white collar criminals, who are engaged in financial and economic crime (vat fraud, white collar crime, money laundering, theft, fraudulent trading, etc.). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to have had the opportunity to speak on this strategic agreement. we must strengthen our cooperation with the united arab emirates in preventing and combating terrorism and crime. it is in the interests of our countries to develop their relations in this area, because terrorism and crime unfortunately know no borders.
in writing. ‒ europol wishes to conclude an agreement with the united arab emirates on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. the terms of cooperation governed by the strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the strategic agreement does not contain any provision on the exchange of personal data, which would be unacceptable to us. according to europol, the uae is increasingly becoming a haven for financial and economic criminals (vat fraud, money laundering, etc.). i therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ the compromises adopted have resulted in a relative weakening of the report on its liberal component. as regards its ecological aspect, ambitions have been raised. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment. a sentence denouncing the doubling of the russian-german nord stream gas pipeline has been added. however, a lively debate is not nearly over between the greens and the efdd on the one hand, and the epp and ecr on the other, on two issues. the main disagreement is over shale gas and nuclear energy. i voted against the end of regulated tariffs, the creation of an artificial market which will deprive us of long-term contracts, indispensable instruments of industrial policy, and also because of the many attacks on russia to promote the import of qatari and american lng.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to reduce the eu's dependence on energy imports by integrating their energy markets, improving security of supply and making the best use of existing and renewable sources.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text, which is as unfavourable to our partnership with russia as it is to the disastrous transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip, formerly tafta). this is a harmful text which is designed to give the eu ever more powers, even as this machine that has gone mad is fighting more and more clearly against the vital interests of the peoples of the old continent.
in writing. i strongly opposed this text, which contains one of the juncker commission's flagship projects, namely a european energy union, that is to say, the abolition of the sovereign competence of the member states to make strategic choices for their nation on their energy package, thereby undermining their levers of influence on the geopolitical scene. the report, drawn up by a rather sovereignist ecr member, certainly attempts to moderate the commission's ambitions, in particular by not adopting its idea of transforming the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators into an integrated agency with powers of injunction and sanction. however, in addition to the fact that the report is very favourable to the most polluting companies, including the exploitation of shale gas and oil, the text is also a new burden on russia, at the same time as it is an indispensable and strategic ally in the fight against islamist terrorism. finally, it is a text which clearly announces the plan to submit this energy union to american interests since it calls for this area to be integrated into the tipc, already the main threat to the interests and well-being of the peoples of europe. i 'm not .
in writing. ‒ given the anti-russian nature of this document (it calls russia an "unreliable partner", supports gas and oil pipeline projects bypassing russia and proposes to ban gazprom from the distribution market in europe) and its very pro-american positioning (it calls for energy to be included in the ptci negotiations), i consider this text to be the complete opposite of my geopolitical orientations. it also promotes the creation of a liberalised energy market by advocating the abolition of regulated tariffs, monopolies and long-term contracts in favour of highly speculative market prices, which i consider to be harmful. for all these reasons, i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the implementation of the energy union, which is the aim of the european commission, chaired by jean-claude juncker. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. first, it recalls that the choice of the energy package is a matter for the member states and not for the commission. the rapporteur also calls for fossil fuels to be subsidised. however, we cannot support proposals to include energy in the transatlantic free trade agreement. the rapporteur is also clearly in favour of the exploitation of shale gas and oil, which is harmful to the environment. the report also stresses that russia is not a reliable partner and that gazprom should be banned from the european distribution market and that gas and oil pipeline projects designed to bypass russia should be supported. we do not share the atlanticist line of this report. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a european energy union. global challenges such as fluctuating energy prices exacerbated by our dependence on certain countries and global warming will not be adequately addressed by national policies in isolation. we need an efficient and interconnected european energy sector. a european energy union will enable a more competitive energy sector to emerge, offering european citizens a service tailored to their needs. cooperation in this field will help us to reduce our dependence on third countries for energy. we will also achieve this by investing in research into new energy sources.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, whose content i believe reflects a good balance between the need to create a single energy market based on cleaner and cheaper energy and the need to let member states control and guide their nuclear policies. in view of the current energy fragmentation of the union, which is hampering its competitiveness and independence, i would like to stress two points in this report: the 10% target for european electricity interconnection and the categorical rejection of the nord stream 2 gas pipeline project, which, by creating a certain energy dependence on russia, would be in conflict with the european strategy for diversifying sources of supply. finally, the report proposes a reasonable compromise on shale gas, with the aim of establishing sufficient guarantees in terms of compliance with environmental standards in the production of this type of hydrocarbons. while diversification of sources of supply is a horizon to be achieved, strong environmental and public health safeguards should be maintained.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report sets out the european parliament's recommendations for building an efficient energy union, capable of providing citizens and businesses with sufficient energy at a competitive price. this report responds to the commission's communication on the energy union of february last. it stresses the importance of diversifying energy sources and supply routes. while recalling the competence of the member states in the field of energy packaging, parliament stressed the need to complete the internal energy market and the measures needed to achieve this. the introduction of a voluntary system of energy group purchases is one of the main proposals to reduce the energy bill of europeans. today, for example, we buy our gas at two or three times the price of our main economic partners, starting with the united states and china. i voted in favour of this report because it reflects the european parliament's ambition in the field of energy and because it provides practical solutions to strengthen european competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european energy union because we need to speed up its construction. i have noticed that the electricity and gas markets are still not functioning optimally. lack of interconnections, lack of regional cooperation and cross-border trade: the internal market needs to be strengthened quickly! at the same time, more and more renewable energy sources are coming onto the grids, making the organisation more complex. it is therefore urgent to respond to the complexity of energy management with a real european strategy, giving priority to the so-called 'smart' management of the networks. the juncker plan on energy has financed many projects and this must continue, particularly for heating and cooling, which are the main energy consumption in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i agree with a number of the proposals in this report, including those emphasising the importance of the role of our assembly on all the legislative proposals in the energy union package, the involvement of industries in the development of the energy production chain of tomorrow, the strengthening of euro-mediterranean cooperation on gas, electricity and european energy networks. i would also like to reiterate my attachment to research and innovation, which are central to ensuring security of supply and combating the greenhouse effect. as regards fracking technologies, i would remind you that they are not, as carbon-based energy, a sector of the future. i am in favour of not calling nuclear energy into question in a blatant way in order to move towards a sustainable energy package which does not call into question the important balances in terms of safety. finally, i would like to stress the need to support the iter research programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it excludes russia as a strategic energy supplier to european countries.
in writing. - mr grobarczyk's report is a bit contradictory. on the one hand, and i fully support him, he says that energy policy is a highly strategic area on which the independence and sovereignty of the states depend and which is therefore their responsibility. on the other hand, it proposes, in order to ensure the energy security of these same states, supply policies at european level, that is to say the negation of these very notions of sovereignty and independence. let us add to this an anti-russian charge, a pro-american tropism, in particular in favour of including the sector in the negotiations of the transatlantic treaty, unwavering support for the internal energy market - that is to say, its total liberalisation and its delivery to private operators, including non-european ones - the multiplication of highly inventive means of breaking what is left of public service in this field - personal production, deregulation of tariffs ... and it will be understood that once again i voted against a report on energy in this house. in the field of security, whether internal, external or energy, europe is not the solution: it is one of the causes of the problem.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the construction of an energy union must be accelerated. the achievement of the 20% energy efficiency improvement target by 2020 unfortunately seems difficult to achieve because too many member states do not take this huge undertaking seriously enough and still block the necessary investments in this area. the juncker plan has financed many projects. this must continue, particularly in the case of heating and cooling, which are the main energy consumption in the european union. finally, the electricity and gas markets are still not operating optimally. lack of interconnections, lack of regional cooperation and cross-border trade: the internal market needs to be strengthened quickly! at the same time, more and more renewable energy sources are coming onto the grids, making the organisation more complex. it is therefore urgent to respond to the complexity of energy management with a real european strategy, giving priority to the so-called 'smart' management of the networks. there's still a lot to do. the forthcoming carbon market reform will be essential for the future direction of investment and for consolidating our industrial base.
in writing. ‒ the compromises adopted have resulted in a relative weakening of the report on its liberal component. as regards its ecological aspect, ambitions have been raised. the itre committee voted to strengthen the provisions on the ptci and the anti-russian component. a sentence denouncing the doubling of the russian-german nord stream gas pipeline has been added. however, a lively debate is not nearly over between the greens and the efdd on the one hand, and the epp and ecr on the other, on two issues. the main disagreement is over shale gas and nuclear energy. i voted against, because of the end of regulated tariffs, the creation of an artificial market which will deprive us of long-term contracts, indispensable industrial policy instruments, and redundant attacks on russia to promote the import of qatari and american lng.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marek gróbarczyk on a european energy union. europe must reduce its energy dependence and promote the use of renewable energy sources to ensure a sustainable and competitive future. to this end, the union must, inter alia, increase interconnection between its member states and diversify its supplies. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of an own-initiative report on the energy union, one of the ten priorities set by jean-claude juncker at the beginning of his mandate. the report supports the development of renewable energy sources, without banning nuclear energy for those member states that wish to do so. the aim will be to move towards an integrated internal energy market at the forefront of research and innovation, particularly in energy efficiency, whereas europe is already a world leader in renewable energy, with 40% of patents and 1.2 million jobs in this sector. as we have been reminding the european commission, it is equally important to have better and more demanding anti-dumping measures to protect our european energy industries. finally, i believe that the ets must be thoroughly reformed and designed in a more realistic way, so that we can effectively combat the ever-increasing leakage of carbon to third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the european energy union. firstly, the report is in favour of polluting companies: it proposes in particular the exploitation of shale gas and oil, under the heading of 'non-conventional energy sources'. secondly, he is anti-russian, in particular by denouncing russia as an unreliable partner, by fully supporting the projects of gas pipelines and oil pipelines bypassing russia. this text is also pro-american. he called for energy to be included in the cipr. the text also supports the commission's view that a liberalised energy market should be created. this means the abolition of regulated tariffs, monopolies and long-term contracts in favour of market prices, speculative spot markets and widespread interconnection.
in writing. ‒ fn meps voted against this energy bill because, firstly, it increases the powers of the european union, secondly, it is foolishly anti-russian, and thirdly, it paves the way for the tafta treaty.
in writing. - i voted against this bill. despite some positive points, such as the reminder of the national prerogative to choose the energy package or the maintenance of subsidies for fossil fuels, we are opposed to this text. we are not happy with his anti-russian and pro-american approach, in particular his demand that energy be included in the ptci and his denunciation of russia as an 'unreliable' partner. it calls for the end of regulated tariffs, the creation of an artificial market that will deprive us of long-term markets, and promotes the import of qatari and american shale gas. that is why we are firmly opposed to it.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the report is to create 'a more economically and physically integrated single energy market' which 'could lead to considerable efficiency gains'. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the member states. and this is done by 'encouraging competition' to 'reduce prices'. with just a few days left until the end of cop 21, all environmental commitments have disappeared and the report encourages and supports "the exploitation of conventional indigenous oil and gas resources in the north sea, eastern mediterranean or black sea". the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear proliferation. i am voting against this text, which does not take any account of the energy challenges facing europe.
in writing. ‒ the compromises adopted have resulted in a relative weakening of the report on its liberal component. as regards its ecological aspect, ambitions have been raised. the itre committee voted to strengthen the provisions on the ptci and the anti-russian component. a sentence denouncing the doubling of the russian-german nord stream gas pipeline has been added. however, a lively debate is not nearly over between the greens and the efdd on the one hand, and the epp and ecr on the other, on two issues. the main disagreement is over shale gas and nuclear energy. i voted against, because of the end of regulated tariffs, the creation of an artificial market which will deprive us of long-term contracts, indispensable industrial policy instruments, and redundant attacks on russia to promote the import of qatari and american lng.
in writing. ‒ this gróbarczyk report on the european energy union includes some laudable objectives such as the desire to retain the national prerogative of choosing the energy package, or the non-reception of the idea of the transformation committee of the agency for the cooperation of regulators, etc. however, this report is eminently anti-russian: it describes russia as an unreliable partner, it supports gas and oil pipeline projects designed to bypass russia, it wants to prohibit de facto gazprom from accessing the distribution market in the european union... it is therefore largely pro-american and in favour of the ptci. however, media reports have shown that the ptci negotiations were largely in favour of us energy exports and that the european negotiators were subject to the us energy lobby. this ideological relationship is therefore not in the interests of consumers, since it prefers to sacrifice cheap energy (at regulated prices) because of its origin and will favour the import of energy from countries that are not recommended (qatar, etc.). i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this particularly balanced text which calls for the implementation of a genuine energy union. the report stresses the competence of the member states in the composition of their energy mix, but also supports the development of renewable energies, conventional hydrocarbons and nuclear energy. it does not oppose in principle non-conventional energy sources, in particular shale gas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. at institutional level, it insists that all matters relating to the energy union should be dealt with under the ordinary legislative procedure and therefore involve parliament fully. finally, and this is a very positive point, it asks the commission to report annually to parliament on the implementation of the energy union using detailed indicators. i voted for this text, but i was opposed to some of its provisions which presented russia as an 'unreliable partner'. these terms only add to the deterioration of relations between the eu and russia, as our producers and consumers continue to suffer from the fruitless escalation of reciprocal sanctions.
in writing. ‒ this report on the european energy union includes some commendable objectives such as the desire to retain the national prerogative of choosing the energy package, or the non-reception of the idea of the transformation committee of the agency for the cooperation of regulators, etc. however, the report is anti-russian in a rather basic way: it describes russia as an unreliable partner, it supports gas and oil pipeline projects designed to bypass russia, it wants to prohibit de facto gazprom from accessing the distribution market in the european union... it is therefore a largely pro-american text from the tipc's point of view. however, revelations in the press have shown that the ptci negotiations were largely favouring us energy exports and that european negotiators were subject to the us energy lobby. this ideological relationship is therefore not in the interests of consumers, since it prefers to sacrifice cheap energy because of its origin and will favour the import of energy from countries that are not recommended (e.g. qatar). i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains several decisive and important aspects for me. i am referring in particular to the desire to bring down the price of energy and to do everything possible to reduce our dependence on imports. to do this we should create a single energy market which should be based on a voluntary common purchasing mechanism. i make a solemn appeal to our governments, as i have already done on several occasions when i was responsible for representing the epp in the negotiations in parliament on the future of industrial policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the energy union report because it proposes concrete and ambitious measures to build a fully integrated european energy market. in cop 21, the energy sector should meet the greenhouse gas reduction targets by supporting decarbonised energy and improving existing technologies to reduce energy consumption. we must support renewable energy sources and energy efficiency measures with the extension of regulatory measures or financial incentives, such as the european fund for strategic investments, which will have to play its full role in decarbonising energy. furthermore, the development of energy production and distribution infrastructures and the interconnection of member states' networks would reduce our dependence on our historical suppliers, end the isolation of certain member states from the european energy market and strengthen the security of supply of the european union. energy independence, efficiency and security will be the winning triptych of the european energy union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the commission's communication on the energy union. the text stresses in particular the aspects of energy security and the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes. it is important that the eu member states work together to reduce their dependence on energy imports; this will require action by integrating their energy markets, improving security of supply, using their existing and renewable sources and managing demand. the security and competitiveness of energy supply will be central elements for the energy union.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the implementation of the energy union, the main topic on the juncker commission's agenda. the document contains some positive points, notably the partly eurosceptic tone of the report, which recalls, for example, the national prerogative to choose the energy package. but too many points remain prohibitive. this report is aimed at polluting companies and proposes in particular the exploitation of shale gas and oil, under the heading of 'non-conventional energy sources'. denounces russia as an unreliable partner; fully supports the projects for gas pipelines and oil pipelines bypassing russia; supports the proposal in the communication for the european commission to monitor gas agreements from the outset of the negotiations; de facto barred gazprom from the distribution market in europe; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and russia. the commission is proposing to include energy in the cipp. the text also supports the commission's view that a liberalised energy market should be created. this means the abolition of regulated tariffs, monopolies and long-term contracts in favour of market prices, speculative spot markets and widespread interconnection. i therefore vote against the adoption of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report by the european parliament entitled 'towards a european energy union'. the eu's basic energy policy guidelines are in complete contradiction to the modest progress achieved at cop 21 in paris. following the commission's proposal for an energy union, this resolution follows the same lines: use of nuclear and fossil fuels, low ambition in promoting renewable energies, and capture and storage of co2. one of the few really positive points is the demand for a binding 40% energy efficiency target, which is necessary but not sufficient on its own. we are far from any climate ambition in which the energy question would be integrated; we remain in a mercantile approach that favors the big energy groups, ignoring any approach based on energy as a public good. energy poverty and moderation of energy consumption are hardly taken into account. we are therefore in a continuous process, far from any ambitious energy policy that can respond to the fight against global warming.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on achieving the 10% interconnection target in the electricity sector. it outlines the prospects for a european electricity grid ready by 2020. overall, this text reflects the reality that the member states are best placed to tackle the problem of energy poverty in the union. the text also recalls that the member states have exclusive competence to define the energy package. so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it encourages the creation of better interconnection of electricity grids, both for renewable energy. this crucial step must help us achieve our climate goals and make europe more competitive with cheaper electricity.
in writing. ‒ as long as interconnection does not mean interdependence but rather a lever of power and an increase in our autonomy, i am in favour of it. i regret, however, that turkey is being drawn into this while at the same time there is a desperate attempt to cut us off from our natural strategic partner, russia.
in writing. ‒ this report is a follow-up to the previous one and follows the strategy to achieve the 10% interconnection target in the electricity sector presented by the european commission. the report recognises that electricity interconnection is one of the preconditions for the completion of an integrated internal electricity market. the report encourages the commission to assess the potential of a 'single window' at union level. the report also stresses that the list of projects of common interest should be drawn up in a more transparent and accountable manner. evaluations should be comprehensive, including in terms of economic, social and environmental impacts, and should be carried out by qualified experts acting independently of the project promoters. in view of the uncertainties surrounding this report, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report sets out the european parliament's recommendations for a european electricity network, in the context of the european commission's proposals on the energy union presented last february. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the report proposes to increase union support to member states lagging behind in this area, with particular attention to projects that address the most significant weaknesses in the integrated union electricity market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources. beyond a purely quantitative target of 10%, the text recalls that the accessibility of interconnections and networks must be guaranteed for interconnections to work. i believe that this report is balanced and that it provides concrete solutions to support the purchasing power of european citizens and the competitiveness of european businesses, so i voted in favour.
in writing. the development of interconnection in the electricity sector is an important step towards the achievement of a fully integrated internal electricity market. this integrated market would facilitate energy trade within the european union, thus increasing market stability and security while reducing the volatility of electricity prices. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report entitled achieving the 10% interconnection target in the electricity sector - a european electricity grid ready for 2020. it contributes to the debate on the reorganisation of the energy market, and more particularly on the need to develop electricity interconnections within and between member states. such an internal market would facilitate electricity trade and increase security while reducing price volatility for the benefit of citizens and the competitiveness of european businesses in our global economy. european consumers could save between €12 billion and €40 billion each year by 2030.
in writing. ‒ i fully share the objectives of this report to make a point and call for the acceleration of measures to improve the interconnection of electricity networks in europe. this interconnection is necessary in view of the very characteristics of electricity - a non-storable fluid - which must be consumed where the needs are located, which may, depending on the circumstances, be far from the place of production. this is a prerequisite for making renewable energy production installations 'profitable', whether they are industrial or come from consumers/producers. this is a necessity to ensure the energy security of the european continent. this is why financial incentives should be given priority to limit the risks of investment (juncker plan and efsi, dedicated taxation) in sustainable, 'smart' and connected technologies. in doing so, the competences of the national authorities must also be respected; the commission has also proposed that the member states should not destabilise existing networks by seeking to coexist two principles which are difficult to reconcile: energy independence and openness to competition. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. it must serve climate objectives but also public service values such as accessibility through connecting all territories and reducing the energy bill.
in writing. ‒ interconnecting networks is not in itself a bad thing, for example to export surplus electricity production to neighbouring countries for the mutual benefit of the states concerned. the fact that the european union is putting its hand in the pocket to finance such projects with a genuine transnational dimension does not seem to be totally abnormal either. the problem is that all this is part of the ideological project of the european energy union, which i oppose, and which obliges the states to a minimum percentage of interconnection of 10%, which i have difficulty in understanding the economic relevance. the report also calls for increased funding and powers for the agency for the coordination of national energy regulators, acer. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's public authorities. the europe of brussels has already shown - currency, borders, trade policy - its indifference and even its capacity to cause nuisance when it has claimed to act in place of the states in matters relating to national sovereignty. let's not add to it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. our european energy market is gradually being established despite the obstacles it faces. among these obstacles is the lack of interconnections. we need it, however, to make the energy market more flexible and to ensure a high level of security of supply, both within a member state and between member states through crossborder grid areas. existing interconnections must be strengthened and used to the maximum of their capacity. cost-benefit analyses should allow for comparison of the different projects. it is also necessary to ensure that investors benefit from a favourable framework for sustainable investment. more long-term contracts in the electricity market are needed to secure investment and to encourage investment.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on achieving the 10% interconnection target in the electricity sector. this report outlines the prospects for a european electricity grid ready by 2020. overall, this text reflects the reality that member states are best placed to tackle energy poverty in the union. the text also recalls that the member states have exclusive competence to define the energy package. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague peter eriksson entitled 'reaching the 10% interconnection target in the electricity sector - a european electricity grid ready for 2020'. this report contributes to the debate on the reorganisation of the energy market, and more particularly on the need to develop electricity interconnections within and between member states. it stressed the importance of achieving 10% interconnection between member states in the electricity market, which is necessary to complete the internal electricity market. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on 'a european electricity grid ready for 2020'. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances. this report is a positive thing for france overall.
in writing. ‒ fn mps voted for this energy bill because it is positive for france.
in writing. ‒ twelve member states are still insufficiently connected to the electricity market of the european union (italy, ireland, romania, portugal, estonia, latvia, lithuania, the united kingdom, spain, poland, cyprus and malta). in 2002, the european council adopted a target of at least 10% electricity grid interconnection by 2005. in 2007, it postponed the achievement of this objective until 2020. interconnected networks ensure energy security, maintain affordable prices and promote the increased share of renewable energy in the decarbonisation process. the main tool to achieve this 10% target is the establishment of 'infrastructure projects of common interest' financed by the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). however, this is all part of the 'energy union' which aims to further liberalise the sector. so i'm not going to.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on achieving the 10% interconnection target in the electricity sector. this report outlines the prospects for a european electricity grid ready by 2020. overall, this text reflects the reality that member states are best placed to tackle energy poverty in the union. the text also recalls that the member states have exclusive competence to define the energy package. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on european energy policy. the text recommends developing electricity interconnections within the union and sets a target of 10% interconnection by 2020. the aim is to guarantee european citizens a secure, sustainable and affordable energy supply based on solidarity and trust. i approved this text and supported in particular the recall of the competence of the states to determine the composition of their energy mix. i do, however, deplore the language used in recital q, which calls russia into question and describes it as 'an unreliable partner which uses its energy supplies as a political weapon'. this provision is not likely to soothe relations between the union and russia. it encourages the futile escalation of sanctions, which i strongly oppose.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eriksson report on a european electricity grid ready for 2020. the report recognises that the 10% electricity interconnection target is an important step in the right direction. it stresses that interconnection is one of the main preconditions for the completion of the internal electricity market. for those member states which have not yet reached the 10% target, the report indicates that more efforts should be made to assist them. particular attention shall be paid to projects addressing the most significant weaknesses in the integrated electricity market of the union. moreover, the report stresses that the purely quantitative 10% target should not be limited, as the accessibility of interconnections and networks is also necessary to ensure that interconnections work.
in writing. ‒ the interconnection of electricity grids is a top priority, especially for our companies. i was able to see this for myself when i visited the inauguration of the france-spain electricity interconnection (inelfe) on the french-spanish border. spain is a country that remains isolated in terms of interconnection. on the other hand, we also sometimes need to sell or buy more electricity, depending on the season. so this new interconnection will be important, but it will not meet all our objectives or solve all our problems. it must be of equal benefit to both countries and not lead to fierce competition. the report does provide some clues on these points, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ network interconnection is essential to the development of a european energy market as demonstrated by the report on the connecting europe facility, which i was co-rapporteur. in this context, i supported the report on achieving the 10% interconnection target in the electricity sector by 2020. this threshold, which would make it possible to strengthen the integration of the european electricity market, will be achieved in particular through the use of innovative financial instruments, such as the european fund for strategic investments. cooperation within the different european regions will also be crucial in coordinating the development of crossborder networks, which is the second axis of the report. better interconnection would reduce both electricity price and volatility, which would benefit the competitiveness of european industry but also the purchasing power of european citizens who should see their electricity bills fall.
in writing. ‒ the 10% electricity interconnection target by 2020 must be met. the benefits will be many, not only in terms of energy, but also in economic, climatic and geostrategic terms. what would be the benefits for european consumers? circulating figures indicate that a fully integrated internal electricity market could save european consumers between eur 12 billion and eur 40 billion per year by 2030. however, electricity interconnection is a sine qua non for this, especially since, for the consumer, the appropriate investments in interconnection could reduce electricity prices by at least eur 2/mwh. however, there is evidence that efforts need to be continued, with 12 member states falling short of the target. these efforts need to be supported and strengthened, in particular to ensure that the necessary investments of eur 150 billion are committed, but also to set and achieve ambitious additional interconnection targets by 2030.
in writing. ‒ the european union is the world's largest energy importer, with 53% of its energy imported, amounting to €400 billion per year. i supported this report which calls for more investment in the integration of the european electricity market, which could bring down prices and save money. this includes investing in network interconnection, which is a key prerequisite for the completion of the internal electricity market, and focusing on projects that address the most significant weaknesses in the integrated electricity market in the union.
in writing. ‒ in connection with the report on the energy union, the european parliament adopted another own-initiative report on the development of the interconnection of the european electricity grid in 2020. launched in 2002, the resolution aims to achieve a 10% level of electricity grid interconnection by 2020. the interconnection project should reduce the energy isolation of certain member states not connected to cross-border networks and improve the security of energy supply. the aim would also be to reduce the european union's dependence on energy imports, but it is clear that this dependence is growing, particularly in the case of fossil fuels. the resolution strengthens the powers of the european regulatory authority and the networking of national regulators. let's face it, though. but it is also proposed, in the usual ultra-liberal logic, to phase out regulated energy prices and support market mechanisms for determining electricity prices and infrastructure investments. i have decided to abstain on this text, which is not a legislative text and is full of contradictions.
in writing. ‒ the schulze report makes some interesting proposals. the aim of the text is to provide the european union with a microfinance instrument to help disadvantaged people and micro-enterprises in difficulty. unfortunately, behind these good intentions there are ideological motives which are obvious from reading the report in detail. gender equality is once again being promoted with the aim of imposing ratios of women entrepreneurs. and then, of course, there is the question of immigrants. these are clearly defined as potential customers of these microfinance schemes. the report also lacks clarity on the budgetary resources to be mobilised: by whom, how and for whom? as far as taxpayers' money is concerned, it is necessary to have a clear idea of the effectiveness of this instrument, particularly in terms of jobs created. that is why i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it aims to increase access to and availability of microfinance for people who have lost or are at risk of losing their jobs or who have difficulties entering or re-entering the labour market, as well as for people facing the threat of social exclusion or vulnerable people who are at a disadvantage in accessing the conventional credit market and who wish to start or develop their own micro-enterprise.
in writing. ‒ this microfinance project is interesting in that it supports freedom of enterprise and allows a priori to create jobs. however, its proven ideological aims pervert it and make it lose all its value in my eyes. another text that promotes gender theory, immigrationism, and so on. the worrying lack of budgeting for the project alone justified my vote against this text.
in writing. once again, meps are setting out with good intentions to create ideological relations. the schulze report seeks to provide the union with a microfinance instrument, in particular for disadvantaged groups or microenterprises in difficulty. if this is the right intention, the objectives of the text deviate from this need to carry dogmatic ideas. thus, in addition to the latent egalitarianism that proposes to impose ratios of women entrepreneurs in future programmes - as if they were not capable of reaching such positions on their own - the report reveals the logic of social dumping that underlies the ultra-liberal vision behind european construction, since the reception of migrants is emphasized by considering them as potential customers of microfinance. the financing of the project is also unclear. i am in favour of an instrument for the social integration of the unemployed or of people with disabilities, but once again the people who are really in a precarious situation are being left behind in favour of the other, which always takes precedence over us.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to set up the european microfinance facility. with a total budget of eur 205 million, the instrument is designed to help microenterprises and builds on the positive results of microcredit policy in developing countries. this programme does not directly finance micro-entrepreneurs but allows participating micro-credit companies to grant more loans on favourable terms, up to a maximum of eur 25 000 per beneficiary. i voted in favour of this programme because it aims to unlock the entrepreneurial potential of europe and to help strengthen vocational training throughout the career.
in writing. the european progress facility aims to facilitate access to micro-credit for vulnerable people, such as the unemployed, low-income people or young people, to set up or develop micro-enterprises. i have voted in favour of this instrument which aims to lift people out of poverty and improve the social inclusion of vulnerable people.
in writing. ‒ by seeking to provide the european union with a microfinance instrument for the disadvantaged, this report is in line with a regrettable ideological line. the principle of microcredit is entirely laudable, but the programmes which may benefit from this instrument are partial and biased. if this instrument could be used for social integration through work, it could also be used for pro-immigration policies or actions supporting utopian discourses on gender theory. i am concerned about the proper use of public funds and the little effectiveness of these measures in the real economy, so i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it favours the reception of migrants.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday 15 december, i voted in favour of the report on the progress microfinance facility for microenterprises, which aims to give a boost to those who want to embark on an entrepreneurial adventure but lack the means to realise their projects. with a budget of €24.3 million for the period 2014-2020, progress funds microcredit agencies to offer loans of less than €25,000 to micro-entrepreneurs wishing to start or develop a business. this instrument helps to reintegrate certain groups into the labour market, such as the long-term unemployed or people from remote rural areas, who generally have difficulty accessing financing from conventional banks. it is a great tool for promoting entrepreneurship and supporting the development of growth and employment in europe.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this text is to provide the union with a microfinance instrument which will be designed to help disadvantaged people and microenterprises in difficulty. nevertheless, and unfortunately, gender equality is once again being promoted with the desire to impose ratios of female entrepreneurs, not to mention the issue of immigrants. these are clearly defined as potential customers of these microfinance schemes. the text is also very vague as to the budgets to be mobilised: by whom, how and for whom? as far as taxpayers' money is concerned, it is necessary to have a clear idea of the effectiveness of this instrument, particularly in terms of jobs created. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sven schulze on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility. progress supports microfinance for the creation or development of a business by financing micro-credit institutions. the amount of eur 124,6 million was allocated in 2015. however, the progress instrument can be further improved and the maximum amount of eur 25 000 increased to support enterprises in the social economy. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility. the aim of the text is to provide the union with a microfinance instrument for disadvantaged groups or microenterprises in difficulty. while i find this project interesting in that it supports freedom of enterprise and aims to create jobs in europe, it is clear from the text that more ideological objectives are also pursued. the commission has also been active in the development of the european social fund, which is a key instrument for the european union's social dialogue. moreover, the financing of this project is not clearly defined. several funds and programmes are mentioned, but their functions and contributions are not clearly specified. finally, the lack of efficiency (disappointing results in terms of jobs created) and information on beneficiaries is repeatedly highlighted.
in writing. ‒ fn meps voted against this text because it gives in to the usual whims of the union: support for migrants, exacerbated feminism, devotion to the brussels commission. this is a pity because the original objective of the text - to enable the unemployed and disadvantaged to access microfinance for their projects - was interesting.
in writing. - i voted against it. we recognize that this is an interesting subject since this principle of microcredit allows entrepreneurship and job creation to be encouraged, but it is perverted by egalitarian amendments and by the pathological need to include migrants in all european texts, even those that have no connection with them. we also condemn the lack of budgeting to provide us with information on the real costs and benefits of this instrument. finally, the low results we have seen make us vote against.
in writing. ‒ microcredit has its origins in south asia and latin america, where the first microcredit initiatives were launched more than 40 years ago. the positive effects on the local economy of developing countries of poverty reduction have inspired the european union to create the progress european microfinance facility in 2010, with an overall budget of €205 million. this instrument has a social dimension and aims to facilitate access to micro-credit for the creation or development of micro-enterprises. it does not directly finance micro-entrepreneurs, but allows union microfinance intermediaries participating in the programme to grant more loans thanks to a higher degree of solvency enabled by the possibility to refinance through the instrument. i do not, however, share the unthinking enthusiasm of some for microcredit, which in many cases replaces redistribution programmes and generates large profits for lending institutions because of the exorbitant interest rates they charge. as the interest rate issue is not mentioned in the report, i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the schulze report aims to provide the union with a microfinance instrument for disadvantaged groups or microenterprises in difficulty. while we find this project interesting in that it supports freedom of enterprise and aims to create jobs in europe, it is clear from the text that more ideological objectives are also pursued. the commission has also been active in the development of the european social fund, which is a key instrument for the european union's social dialogue. moreover, the financing of this project is not clearly defined. several funds and programmes are mentioned without clearly specifying their functions and contributions. finally, the lack of efficiency and information on beneficiaries is repeatedly highlighted. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this schulze report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance instrument is to provide the union with a microfinance instrument for disadvantaged groups or microenterprises in difficulty. while the objective is commendable and widely agreed upon, the substance of the matter is more obscure. indeed, the report does not hide its ideological objectives such as gender equality (while poverty has no gender...), the reception of migrants (the latter are seen as potential customers of microfinance), etc... the financing of this project is also unclear. this project should focus more on social integration through work and access to business credit, rather than being lost in the shuffle. the lack of budgeting and certain objectives which are contrary to my views are sufficient reasons for me to oppose this project. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility. this instrument finances micro-credit institutions which provide loans of less than eur 25 000 to project promoters for the creation or takeover of a business. since its launch in 2010, it has already enabled 13 252 microcredits to be issued in europe, worth €124.6 million. in france, three organisations are eligible to receive european progress funds and have regional outreach networks: adie, initiative france and créa sol. i have approved this text, one of the provisions of which calls on the member states to make progress better known.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility is to provide the union with a microfinance facility for disadvantaged groups of the population or for microenterprises in difficulty. while the objective is commendable and widely agreed upon, the substance of the matter is more obscure. indeed, the report does not hide its ideological objectives such as gender equality (while poverty has no gender...), the reception of migrants (the latter are seen as potential customers of microfinance), etc. the financing of this project is also unclear. this project should focus more on social integration through work and access to business credit, rather than being lost in the shuffle. the lack of budgeting and certain objectives which are contrary to my views are sufficient reasons for me to oppose this project. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it gives a very precise assessment of 'progress'. this microfinance instrument has demonstrated its strengths, but also its weaknesses. it is now up to us to make the right decisions, not about the substance but about the form. i am referring in particular to the improvement of assistance for micro-credit borrowers and specifically to their training, guidance and support.
in writing. ‒ the european progress instrument aims to increase access to microfinance for people who have lost or are at risk of losing their jobs, who are in difficulty on the labour market or who are facing the threat of social exclusion. it is therefore a useful tool in the fight against poverty and unemployment. the figures show that 60% of people were unemployed or inactive when they applied for a microcredit through progress. it is therefore appropriate to support this instrument and to seek to improve its operation. the resolution makes a number of proposals to that end which i think are right, and that is why i have supported the text. these proposals concern improving access to the instrument, targeting target groups, complementarity of progress with other union instruments, among others. it is also necessary to increase the visibility of this instrument, to accompany it with training in entrepreneurship, and to extend its geographical scope of action. progress is to provide 46 000 microcredits by 2020, for a total of €500 million. we must ensure that this objective is achieved.
in writing. ‒ the schulze report aims to provide the union with a microfinance instrument for disadvantaged groups or microenterprises in difficulty. while we find this project interesting in that it supports freedom of enterprise and aims to create jobs in europe, it is clear from the text in question that more ideological objectives are also being pursued. the commission has also been active in the development of the european social fund, which is a key instrument for the european union's social dialogue. moreover, the financing of this project is not clearly defined. several funds and programmes are mentioned without clearly specifying their functions and contributions. this instrument could therefore be useful, in particular through social integration through work (unemployed, disabled people), access to credit for the most precarious entrepreneurs, the creation of sustainable jobs, especially in this period of austerity and banking prudence. however, the populations mentioned, the lack of budgeting and the low results highlighted oblige me to oppose this project. i therefore vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new common fisheries policy (cfp), which provides a structure for technical measures and multiannual plans. this report follows a consultation on technical measures launched in 2005, to which the fishermen interviewed responded by expressing several requests, such as adapting technical measures to fisheries, adapting technical measures to the landing obligation or introducing technical measures which are not contradictory. this text is therefore a step in the right direction, since it takes account of the demands of the fishermen and simplifies the technical measures of the cfp by adapting them to each type of fishery.
in writing. ‒ for almost thirty years now, european fisheries legislation has been characterised by a complex and illegible legal backlog, making its application very difficult. the report by mr gabriel mato calls for simplification of the rules to satisfy the fishermen, who are calling for technical measures to be adapted to fisheries, technical measures to be adapted to the landing obligation and technical measures which are not contradictory. these are legitimate demands, and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources for sustainable fisheries in europe.
in writing. ‒ the text aims to simplify and adapt technical measures to each fishery, by regionalising these measures in the framework of multiannual plans. this corresponds to the demands expressed by the professionals in the sector who responded to the consultation launched by alain cadec in june 2015. that is why i voted in favour of this rationalization, which seems to me to be in the right direction.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which, although it does not go far enough in responding to the requests of fishermen, nevertheless provides for a simplification and rationalisation of the regulations. the technical measures have been piling up like a thousand leaves for 30 years, adding ever more complexity and constraints for fishermen. the mato report is therefore moving in the right direction by seeking to simplify these technical measures and adapt them to each fishery, in particular by regionalising technical measures in the framework of multiannual plans. it is certainly regrettable that the european commission does not intend to regionalise these technical measures, but i am nevertheless pleased that there is provision for rationalization and simplification, which will reduce the number of regulations without affecting conservation standards.
in writing. ‒ as these technical measures for fishing have become complex and highly directive over the years, i welcome the simplification provided for in this text. however, i would prefer to see these measures regionalised, unlike the european commission. the main thing at the moment is simplification, so i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ in view of the complexity of the directives which restrict the activities of fishermen, this report aims to simplify and regionalise technical measures in the framework of multiannual plans. the fishermen wanted technical measures to be adapted to the landing obligation and to fisheries, while at the same time rationalising them so that they no longer contradicted each other. however, even if the european commission intends to make a series of simplifications, in particular by reducing the number of regulations, it is unlikely to regionalize these technical measures. this text is a step in the right direction, even if the commission has the last word. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the new common fisheries policy will be accompanied by a new technical measures framework, which should be proposed by the commission in early 2016. the aim is to adapt the technical measures to the objectives of the new cfp. technical measures regulate fishing conditions, in particular the characteristics of fishing gear (e.g. mesh size), the minimum size of catches or fishing areas. the own-initiative report prepared by mr gabriel mato sets out parliament's vision for the future negotiations on this new technical measures framework. it stresses the following points:- simplification of technical measures to put an end to the successive stacking of contradictory regulations;- adaptation of technical measures to the regional specificities of fisheries; - adaptation of the regulatory framework to the new management logic imposed by the obligation to land all catches;- participation of fishermen in the process of drawing up technical measures;- adoption of multiannual management plans for the different areas and species. i agree with these objectives and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report is part of the implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) adopted in 2013. the new cfp is based on the objective of maximum sustainable yield (msy) and applies stock management at the level of biomass size, reproductive stock and fishing mortality. technical measures and multiannual plans are the main conservation tools to achieve these objectives. in view of the commission's proposal for early 2016 on a new framework for technical measures, this report sets out the european parliament's priorities in this area. the report stresses the importance of regional cooperation on conservation through multiannual plans to tackle the problem of juvenile catches and other by-catches. it also advocated closer involvement of fishermen in the decision-making process, including the development of technical measures. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. i supported this report on the revision of the technical measures of the common fisheries policy (cfp). simplifying the measures of this legislative framework and enhancing cooperation in certain areas are essential to achieve the objectives of the cfp, namely to minimise by-catches and the impact of fishing on the marine environment.
in writing. ‒ the european union has had a new common fisheries policy for a year. this should lead to more sustainable fishing, ensuring the reproduction and conservation of species and protecting an important economic sector for many member states, including france. traditional fishing techniques are recognised and will be preserved. conserving fish stocks and ending discards - more than a quarter of catches are wasted every year - are crucial for the future of small-scale, artisanal and coastal fishing. for france, europe's leading maritime interface, this new common fisheries policy should be a real asset. however, the complexity and diversity of technical measures make their application difficult for fishermen. to ensure the implementation of the cfp objectives, future technical measures will need to be simplified, contained in a clearly structured legal framework and developed on the basis of sound scientific peer-reviewed advice.
in writing. ‒ the report aimed to simplify the measures applicable to fisheries. the aim of adapting the technical measures to the fisheries and the landing obligation was quite commendable. however, the commission does not want to move to a regional scale so that the measures are geographically adapted. it will nevertheless streamline the regulations without lowering the level of protection of marine species. i am always in favour of simplifying the rules when that does not mean abandoning the prohibited measures. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it is in favour of simplifying the fishing techniques required.
in writing. ‒ european fisheries legislation is characterised by a complex and illegible legal stack, making its application very difficult. the report calls for simplification of the rules to satisfy fishermen who want technical measures to be adapted to fisheries, technical measures to be adapted to the landing obligation and technical measures that are not contradictory. i voted for the amendments based on this line of reasoning and against those which depart from it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new cfp: structure for technical measures and multiannual plans. the technical measurements have been stacked for 30 years. they're complex and highly directive. the fishermen do not respect them because of these defects. this report seeks to simplify these technical measures and adapt them to each fishery. the aim is therefore to regionalize technical measures in the framework of multiannual plans. it is assisted in this by the consultation on technical measures. the responding fishermen made three demands: adaptation of technical measures to fisheries, adaptation of technical measures to the landing obligation and technical measures which are not contradictory. the simplification of technical measures is a step in the right direction. the report envisages regionalising them, but the commission will have the final say and will present its draft at the end of january 2016. the commission acknowledges, however, that rationalization and simplification are necessary.
in writing. ‒ meps voted in favour of this fisheries bill because it simplifies the technical measures governing it. it corresponds to a request from the fishermen themselves.
in writing. ‒ technical measures for fisheries have been piling up for the last 30 years. they are complex and very directive, like many european regulations. the report's laudable aim is to simplify these measures in the framework of multiannual plans, while adapting them to fisheries through regionalisation. because i am in favour of simplifying the standards and because i support the common sense of their regionalisation, i voted in favour of this report, hoping that the commission will follow the main lines of the report.
in writing. - i voted yes. this is not the usual way of doing things, but parliament is lucid: it recognizes that the technical measures relating to fishing are too burdensome and too prescriptive, to the point that fishermen get lost in them and can no longer comply with them. the rapporteur's draft aims to simplify these procedures and adapt them to each fishery, by regionalising the measures. it should be noted, however, that the european commission will have the final say on the simplification of these measures. the commission does not seem to be in favour of regionalisation.
in writing. ‒ the new common fisheries policy is based on three key ideas to ensure the sustainability of the fisheries sector through sustainable management of fisheries resources. the multiannual management of quotas aims to give clarity to fisheries companies, the objective of maximum sustainable yield aims at optimising catches in accordance with the state of stocks, and the participation of regional advisory councils brings management decisions closer to local operators, whether they are fishermen, scientists or members of ngos. the report submitted aims to simplify the measures and to harmonize the techniques relating to the landing obligation by large areas. i maintain that the objective remains to "sort through the deck". this report recommends that parliament should give a framework to the delegated acts adopted by the commission in the field of technical fisheries measures. it called for the selectivity of fishing gear to be improved and confirmed the involvement of the regional advisory councils in the formulation of concrete proposals to achieve the objective of reducing catches of fish below the required size. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to simplify technical measures and adapt them to fisheries. the aim is to regionalize technical measures in the framework of multiannual plans. the commission does not seem to favour regionalisation, but it does recognise the need for rationalisation of measures. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ this mato report on the new cfp aims to simplify the technical measures that have been piled up for 30 years in the fisheries sector. the aim is to regionalize technical measures in the framework of multiannual plans. the problem is that the european commission does not intend to regionalise these measures, but nevertheless intends to rationalise and simplify them by reducing the number of regulations. i voted in favour of this text which simplifies positive law, even though the commission does not envisage regionalisation, contrary to this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new common fisheries policy, which has been in force since january 2014. the policy is based on four main pillars: maintaining fish stocks above the maximum sustainable yield (msy), making all catches landed, management plans to manage fish stocks on a multiannual basis and regionalising technical measures. the purpose of this report is to make recommendations for the negotiations on the new technical measures framework adapted to the objectives of the new cfp, which the commission should propose in early 2016. technical measures regulate fishing conditions, in particular the characteristics of fishing gear, the minimum catch size or fishing areas. i am particularly in favour of the text which calls for the simplification of technical measures to put an end to the successive accumulation of contradictory regulations. i also supported the recommendation that fishermen should be involved in the process of developing these technical measures and that multiannual management plans should be adapted to the different areas and species.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by our colleague mr gabriel mato on the new common fisheries policy. the report stresses the following points: simplification of technical measures to put an end to the successive accumulation of contradictory regulations; adaptation of technical measures to the regional specificities of fisheries; adaptation of the regulatory framework to the new management logic imposed by the obligation to land all catches; the involvement of fishermen in the process of developing technical measures; the adoption of multiannual management plans for the different areas and species. since the 2013 cfp reform, all multiannual plans have to include a maximum sustainable yield objective with a timetable for achieving it, measures to implement the discard ban and the landing obligation, as well as back-up mechanisms for taking corrective action and review clauses.
in writing. ‒ this report on the new cfp aims to simplify the technical measures that have been piled up over the past 30 years in the fisheries sector. the aim is to regionalize technical measures in the framework of multiannual plans. the problem is that the european commission does not intend to regionalise these measures, but nevertheless intends to rationalise and simplify them by reducing the number of regulations. i voted in favour of this text which simplifies the positive law, even though the commission does not envisage regionalisation, contrary to this report.
in writing. ‒ i am glad that i voted in favour of this report, because it sends very good signals to our fishermen, and especially those of us in the mediterranean. when we ask for technical measures to be simplified, adapted to regional specificities or fishermen to be even more involved in the development of these same technical measures, we show that we have taken account of their expectations. we still need to put this on paper, but we will succeed because we will remain committed to sustainable but competitive fishing.
in writing. ‒ the new common fisheries policy (cfp) entered into force in january 2014. in the context of its implementation, it will be accompanied by a new technical measures framework to be proposed by the commission in early 2016; the aim is to adapt the technical measures to the objectives of the new cfp. i supported this report, which sets out parliament's position for future negotiations on the technical measures framework. it stressed in particular: the simplification of technical measures in order to put an end to the successive stacking of contradictory regulations; the adaptation of the regulatory framework to the new management logic imposed by the obligation to land all catches; the involvement of fishermen in the process of drawing up technical measures and the adoption of multiannual management plans for the different areas and species.
in writing. ‒ the common fisheries policy was reformed in 2013, and it was time to review the technical measures resulting from it, some of which had not been changed since 1998. i therefore took part in the work of the committee on fisheries to formulate recommendations to the european commission on the future technical framework, which we adopted in the form of a resolution in strasbourg on tuesday 15 december. a broad consensus has been formed around the necessary simplification and regionalisation. because some measures, if applied indiscriminately to all, can have a detrimental effect on specific fisheries. i am also pleased to have had an amendment adopted in plenary which warns of the need for real regionalisation to allow for greater participation and support from the actors concerned. finally, the new fisheries policy must be selective. selectivity means avoiding juveniles and catching only target species, i.e. those for which quotas are held, using modernised gear and techniques. some existing technical measures will have to be abolished because they are now obstacles to selectivity.
in writing. ‒ simplifying technical measures is a step in the right direction. the report envisages regionalising them, but the commission will have the final say and will present its draft at the end of january 2016. the commission acknowledges, however, that rationalization and simplification are necessary. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the common fisheries policy (cfp) is supposed to guarantee the sustainability of fisheries while ensuring a fair standard of living for fishermen. it has recently been reformed, including the introduction of multiannual fishing plans (to avoid impairing the species' reproductive capacity) and a series of technical measures (ban on driftnets, prevention of accidental catches of porpoises, ban on the removal of shark fins from vessels). these provisions are spread over more than 30 different regulations and constitute a complex, heterogeneous and sometimes even contradictory system. the resolution therefore calls for a new framework that can be easily understood by fishermen and for the closer involvement of fishermen in the decision-making process. without prejudice to the content of the future cfp and relying solely on the measures recommended in this report, which seem to me to be in the right direction, i voted in favour of this report.
madam president, the 'border guards' package which the commission is presenting today is intended as a response to the current crisis, but as usual it is an attempt to mismanage problems which we would not have had without the europe of brussels. the commission's proposal to deal with the influx of immigrants of all kinds is not to strengthen cooperation but to put these countries under protection, in total violation of their sovereignty. in short, it is the right of interference dear to the globalists, the fact of intervening with foreign forces in the territory of a state that has not asked for anything, or even opposes it, allegedly for its own good. worse, to trigger this intervention decided by the commission's bureaucrats alone, the approval of governments would not even be required; they could only oppose it by painstakingly assembling a strengthened majority. this rule, known as the reverse qualified majority, is a further scandal. schengen has an original flaw: it was negotiated in secret. french parliamentarians only discovered its existence by chance, when a decree was published in the middle of august 1986, six months after it had come into force. schengen allows uncontrolled movement between european countries - that is the root cause of the problem - a call for air, and these replants will not change that. we must re-establish internal border controls. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the issue of the right of asylum, and whether it is not already in the process of doing so.
madam president, the schengen area is a complete failure, a sieve that lets in millions of migrants, among whom are hundreds of terrorists. the 130 people who died in paris on november 13 were victims of this. but the european union does not want to face reality. instead of condemning schengen, it is trying to strengthen it. i am firmly opposed to the project she is proposing today. the union has already removed controls from the member states over their internal borders; it now wants to de facto take away control of their external borders by giving a super frontex agency the right to control them for them. i have no confidence in this type of european agency, which has already proved ineffective. it is by taking back their sovereignty, not by selling it, that states will stop the flood of migration.
madam president, the current system for managing the union's external borders has shown its limits. i have a few questions about that. the first concerns the commission's response. what you are calling for is more europe; i agree with this, and it is in line with the demands of parliament, which has often spoken in favour of a european system of border guards under community control. that said, how are you going to share this option with the various member states who complain about the porousness of the borders, but at the same time refuse to work together? secondly, you say that better border management must be achieved by strengthening the frontex agency. why not, on the edge? but that said, what will be the exact contours of frontex plus? will the game of hide-and-seek between the states and the agency ever end? will the respective responsibilities be clearly defined, or will frontex plus remain the wrong and convenient instrument for the member states? i shall not go into this package of proposals further, but will concentrate on a few more general observations. whether it is the fight against terrorism or migration policies, the current context calls for ever more reactions. the summits are multiplying, the ministers are writing, the commission is making a series of announcements. but should we not, paradoxically, take a step back? this accumulation of proposals may cause us to lose sight of the essential need to achieve a comprehensive, coordinated and intelligible policy. i will mention two examples here. firstly, when i hear that, to compensate for the lack of implementation of the emergency relocation mechanisms, some of the responsibilities are being exchanged via the resettlement mechanism from turkey, i can only remain doubtful about the general orientation and readability. we are also working on a commission proposal for a permanent relocation mechanism. however, emergency mechanisms are already struggling to be implemented for about 200 people relocated. i think we should take the time necessary to consider the way in which these provisions are to be applied and their effectiveness.
madam president, i welcome the adoption by parliament of the proposal for a pilot project on the coordination of the european coast guard, which i have been calling on the commission to undertake since 2010. by publishing its draft, the commission recognises the crucial interest of this proposal. it is essential to coordinate the 316 authorities which perform coast guard functions in the territory of the european union. the decoupling of maritime security and immigration management is a prerequisite for effective joint interventions by the fisheries control, maritime security and frontex agencies. this proposal is important for maintaining schengen, which is one of the pillars of the european union. the european union must take responsibility for the control of its external borders if a member state is unable to do so or fails to assume this responsibility. it is clear that this system cannot be established without the member states relinquishing some of their sovereignty. the member states cannot complain about europe's alleged inaction on immigration if they do not give it a mandate and cooperate with each other. the means of action are national, but coordination can only be european.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. it was time, but this time europe is acting with consistency. since we decided to abolish internal borders to promote the free movement of citizens, it was necessary to set up european surveillance of external borders. i remain, however, sceptical and even worried about the actual implementation of these measures. once again, since the union budget has reached its limits, we are dependent on the member states. however, despite their announcements, they did not provide frontex with the experts promised in the last migration package. in addition, the equipment dedicated to this corps of european agents must also be co-financed by the member states; the worst is to be expected, as with the madad fund. we need to get out of the budgetary redistributions. the revision of the multiannual financial framework and the structure of own resources, which have become obsolete, may be the meeting that will allow us to break the deadlock. this revision must be based on this simple principle: community action must be financed from the community budget.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of cop 21 (2015/2960 ((rsp)).
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, mr luxembourg government representative, we must of course welcome this agreement reached in paris. this is excellent news, and we must congratulate - it has already been done - the french presidency, which i believe has invented a new form of cop presidency, managing both to have no declared opponents in a cop and to put itself at the end in the centre of the game to create the right balance in paris. the european union, the commission, the council, minister dieschbourg and commissioner arias cañete, especially on the alliance games, who also facilitated this negotiation, must also be congratulated. we now have a finish line, very clearly below 2 degrees, trying to get as close as possible to 1.5 degrees. for us, the conclusion is clear: we have to get off carbon, we have to get off fossil fuels, and we have to do it very quickly if we really want to get close to 1.5 degrees. there's been more than good news in paris. we have lost on the question of sea transport and international air transport. having sectors that are totally exempt from climate responsibility is also a failure of the paris negotiations. the fact that we have not succeeded, under pressure from the oil-producing countries, in including decarbonisation, the entry of the price of fossil fuels and the price of carbon in the negotiations is also a failure. my takeaway is that, at the end of the day, if the path to this 1.5 to 2 degree warming finish line is unclear, there are some extremely interesting tools, including this five-year review - and hopefully already a review, or at least a start to a review in 2018 - because it reflects a new governance of climate policies. civil society, businesses that have understood the climate challenge and local authorities, which are often ahead of the states, will regularly be actors in new climate policies. i think that's really the good news of this negotiation: democratic public debates will be held regularly on climate policies and it will be up to us to rise to the challenge each time, to move from this moment of climate irresponsibility in which we are, with commitments at 3 degrees, to this responsibility at 1.5. but it also implies a responsibility for the european union: it is not the status quo, it is not a return to business as usual; 30% reduction in our emissions by 2020, commissioner, that must be your objective. reviewing the climate-energy package - as the european parliament has again called for - in terms of emissions, efficiency and renewable energy is your agenda. and this european union must also do its job with regard to the financial transaction tax. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". obviously, with the paris agreement, it is the end of the kyoto-type governance where, basically, we were in an extremely restrictive regime and that did not work, despite the good intentions. this is a new, broader form of governance, which is in fact based on a soft law, a law which does not really allow for the coercion of the states. but this is the world we live in, where governments are just one of the actors in the fight against climate change, alongside local governments, civil society, business. it is up to us to make it a disciplinary tool, a binding tool so that we can actually achieve ambitious policies.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if the many articles praising the cop 21 chaired by the french foreign minister, laurent fabius were to be believed, it would have been a success. the reality is not quite that, because the paris agreement is not binding, and it boils down to declarations of intent that will prove insufficient to limit global warming, if it is still edible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a certain form of punitive ecology has merely poisoned the daily lives of millions of our fellow citizens and has failed to meet the immense challenges facing our planet and our continent, and for good reason: what the european union gives with one hand, it takes back with the other. the cop 21 and the union today want to reduce carbon emissions, but the union continues to advocate unbridled free trade, in particular by refusing to implement a community preference that would encourage the relocation of our means of production and thus avoid importing consumer products from tens of thousands of kilometres away. and of course, the fewer kilometres a commodity travels, the less greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere. cop 21 and the union also want to preserve biodiversity and encourage responsible agriculture, but at the same time the union is validating the transatlantic treaty, which will have the effect of importing into europe products which do not meet any of our social or environmental standards and which are putting hundreds of small family farms in grave danger of death. i am not even talking about the total absence of a visionary policy on the part of the union and its support for renewable energy sources in particular, nor will i mention the facilitation of the import of oil sands from canada, which is a real threat to the boreal forest.
madam president, after copenhagen and the disappointment of copenhagen, i can say that we have come a long way, because bringing 195 countries together around a climate agreement was a real tour de force, and we can welcome this fine step forward thanks to the unwavering will shown by the french presidency and the talents of its diplomacy, and above all i welcome the role of the luxembourg minister, carole dieschbourg, and our commissioner, arias cañete, whose efforts have been rewarded. this agreement, which some call historic and ambitious, is not legally binding, unfortunately, in my view. but today, in any case, we must take concrete action, not only in the european union, but also in china, india and the united states. this agreement will have to be ratified, respected and improved. we'll see about that as part of his review. the agreement on financing was also a key issue on which we risked stumbling. at least paris will have led to a north-south partnership. it is true that everything remains to be done because this agreement is only a starting point. but i remain confident because the commitment of civil society and our businesses to reduce their emissions is a new one. this will also make it possible to move towards a gradually decarbonised industrial revolution and thus to give full play to technological innovation. and this is where the economy and the climate come together, which i think is very positive.
madam president, first i would like to congratulate mr cañete: bravo pour votre good job. bravo à vous, mais aussi à carole dieschbourg, pour le travail que vous avez accompli. il s'agit d'un travail que nous vous devons, nous qui avons été avec vous dans cette délégation de l'union européenne. avec la présidence française et laurent fabius, nous avons réussi à obtenir un accord historique. historique, parce que c'est un accord universel: 195 pays se sont mis d'accord après vingt ans de discussions qui ont vu l'échec de copenhague fin 2009; il était donc temps de repartir sur un bon pied pour pouvoir lutter contre ce changement climatique. accord universel avec des contributions nationales qui seront révisées en 2020, une clause de révision dès 2025 et 100 milliards de dollars à partir de 2020, un plancher et non un plafond – là aussi, c'est une avancée que nous devons souligner. il y a une dose de contraintes dans l'accord de paris, mais il n'y a pas de sanctions – nous pouvons aussi peut-être le regretter: cela signifie donc que le combat continue, que cet accord de paris est une étape et que nous devons, lors de la cop 22, qui se tiendra à marrakech fin 2016, continuer à faire en sorte d'avoir non seulement une lutte contre le changement climatique, mais aussi un changement de paradigme économique: économie circulaire avec son développement, agriculture durable et circuit court, mais aussi développement des énergies renouvelables, avec le développement d'une politique d'économie d'énergie et d'efficience énergétique. combat du siècle, mais opportunité du siècle, voilà notre défi!
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, although the agreement reached in paris is a strong and encouraging sign, since 195 countries have managed to agree, i do not hide my disappointment. i would have liked to see a binding international agreement in paris, so that the greatest number of people, and especially the largest emitters, could approve it. however, let us consider this summit as the starting point of a new collective awareness at international level on the issue of climate change, and in particular on its train of disruptions, floods, hurricanes, droughts, which we have to face more and more frequently. i would also like to thank our commissioner, miguel arias cañete, who has enabled the european union to speak with one voice. in any case, for the summit to be a success, concrete action will be needed from the main emitters, such as china, india and the united states. it should be remembered that we, the european union, account for less than 11% of global co2 emissions. without a concrete commitment from our partners, our efforts will be in vain. i would also like to mention the importance of credible funding, because we all know that money is the nerve of war. finally, i would like to stress the crucial role that citizens, civil society and businesses must play alongside governments. they are the force of proposals and action. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, thank you for your question. i must say that on this point we can only agree. i personally wanted a binding agreement, and to be binding it must include sanctions. if aid is paid out even though commitments are not respected, we must be able to draw the consequences.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs who have done a very useful collective work here too, and this complements the work of the taxe committee. i have the impression that we are talking about an old story here, that we are getting old, that we are talking about the same things over and over again on a subject which is unfortunately - and i draw your attention, commissioner, to this reality - increasingly at the centre of the rejection of europe by the citizens. we have sinned in two ways. the first is the internal market. we explained to people that in europe there would be no difference in the geographical location of an activity. this applies to a multitude of other rules, standards and regulations which affect the workforce. on the other hand, in all matters of taxation, there is still this total anomaly of accepting that within the single market, depending on where you are located, you end up with completely different conditions; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so in this respect i think it is really urgent that the commission should look again at the question of the consolidated common base for corporation tax. it is simply a question of the internal market. on the other hand, there is another aspect which is particularly regrettable: with the introduction of the euro and mutual control of budgets, we find ourselves with states that boast of having a triple a rating but, in the meantime, steal tax resources from their little comrades, which allows them to improve their own performance. we have also seen that in a country like greece it is not entirely neutral that we have never dared to confront - i tried to do so in the two-pack - the issue of tax fraud and tax evasion by the particularly wealthy people in greece. so there's an emergency, that's the only thing to remember. we must act now, and stop multiplying reports and resolutions. take responsibility for your actions!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this own-initiative report has the merit of being there, but it is largely redundant compared with the report of the special committee on taxe. i shall therefore repeat the position we have adopted previously. first, we regret the time it has taken the european institutions to assess the damage caused by aggressive tax optimisation. thank you for the tip-off! the shortfall for france would be 15 billion euros a year, probably ten times as much for the union. but i doubt the sincerity of the intentions when we know that mr juncker is the main architect of the luxleaks scandal. so is mr. dijsselbloem, who is the dutch finance minister, one of the assembly hubs that allows multinationals like facebook, starbucks and amazon to pay almost no taxes. so what's the answer? the sovereignty of the states in tax matters must be safeguarded and these practices must be combated. the national front has joined all the texts in favour of tax transparency but categorically refuses to move towards a tax union. i therefore welcome the initiatives to control transfer prices, to introduce transparency in the area of re-writes and to harmonize the corporate tax base. i would have liked clearer penalties for consultancies that assist in misuse of optimisation. beyond this, it is obvious that a country like france will not spare a thought on the level of its compulsory levies. there are only tax havens compared to tax hells; it's a different subject, but it's related. we must strengthen our national fiscal attractiveness for greater readability and stability, in particular by lowering levies. in france, a pact between the state and the strategic and business sectors will be needed to generate confidence and encourage value creation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have known diplomacy of power, i have known diplomacy of interest, we europe, this parliament are inventing a diplomacy of 'human rights'. it marks a certain way of doing things, a new specificity, but does it not hide something? isn't she, in a way, a hypocrite? does it not conceal a double standard, a kind of neo-colonialism? we can ask ourselves what we are doing in iraq, serbia, libya, syria, turkey, countries with which we are negotiating now while they support terrorism. we must return to genuine diplomacy with china, talk about our interests, talk about our common interests and find economic balances that need to be built and that are absolutely essential for the future of europe and for the future of china. china is ready for that. and are you? are you ready to have a serious conversation with china?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this project for a single international humanitarian structure is ambitious. however, concrete evidence that this is possible has yet to be provided. transparency and global coordination on such sensitive issues is not something that comes by accident. it is too broad in its scope when it speaks of all the populations affected by the war, but it does mention some very interesting possibilities, such as better implementation of humanitarian law or consultation with the local authorities. those are good ideas. unfortunately, gender equality or emotional education courses are out of the question and have no place in this project. as for the reception of refugees, it is being invoked here again without anyone seeing that it is only a palliative to the current problems in syria, iraq and libya. the only lasting solution for the distressed people of these countries to live in peace in their own countries is to solve the problem at its source. as entire families are displaced and face violence on a daily basis, we are waiting for serious proposals from the major global players. otherwise i cannot reasonably give a blank to yet another international organization.
madam president, i would first like to thank our colleague, mr guerrero salom, for his work on this subject and i would tell him that i will personally support his report. as noted, the first world humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul, turkey on 23-24 may 2016. i hope that this summit will be an opportunity to respond better to the humanitarian disasters, which are unfortunately increasing in number. today, more than 200 million people are affected by humanitarian crises. the financial needs are enormous. indeed, the appeal for humanitarian action in 2015 reached the amount of 19 billion euros, a record high in the history of the united nations. it is therefore important to think about the global response to these disasters that affect millions of people. the effort must be global. the european union has a major role to play at international level as the leading donor. it should recall our principles of humanitarian aid intervention and also contribute to all sustainable financing to respond to crises while promoting the strengthening of the links between humanitarian aid and development policy.
madam president, madam commissioner, the right to mobility has been too much conceived over time as a means of putting workers in competition with one another, because it has been disconnected from the law and from social and human progress. with the services directive and the posting of workers directive, the european union has even organised this competition in the interests of the profitability of enterprises. we must restore fairness and equality between workers in access to work, labour law, social protection rights, better working conditions and pay, and this is partly through the creation of a european body of labour inspectors to enforce these rights. this inevitably requires a revision of the directive on the posting of workers. yes, the principle of equal work, equal pay must be respected, but equal social protection must also be guaranteed. it is time that our european union became an area of solidarity and social progress, not competition.
madam president, madam commissioner, we all know that the mobility of citizens and workers, equal social protection, equal pay for equal work are and must be fundamental rights for citizens today. president juncker has given us a lot of hope with the triple a of social europe. on the question of reopening the 2014 directive, which we - as you know, madam commissioner - negotiated with great difficulty, i would like to know whether the member states really want to transpose it. the fact that it is being asked to be reopened even before it has been transposed shows us a lack of will in this matter. i too agree that the member states should put in place real controls, real european control over the implementation of this directive. otherwise we will not be able to achieve the goals we have set for ourselves. finally, i would like to say that we must all work together to defend geographical and occupational mobility for the best of reasons: it is our best guarantee, our first protection against unemployment and that is our objective. i trust your work, but i want you to know that we're not gonna let anything slip on this one.
in writing. the adoption of the 'mobility' package is a central focus of the commission's work for a more social europe. the package should be based on the revision of the directive on posted workers, which has been called for by the european socialists for years, to better combat social dumping, particularly in the road transport sector. it should also include the revision of the regulation on the coordination of social security systems to take better account of the increasing mobility of workers within the union. there is an urgent need to act against social fraud, which undermines the internal market and dangerously fuels the rejection of the european project. the commission has also proposed to amend the rules on the application of the principle of proportionality by extending the scope of the exemption to include the following: however, it has just been announced that it will be postponed to 2016. this postponement is incomprehensible to the european socialists: it sends a negative message to our fellow citizens, whose concerns are being ignored. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european social area.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let us run away! this could be the next theme of the european council. the council's leaders claim to be fighting terrorism, but they fail to mention the fact that hundreds or even thousands of terrorists are among the flows of migrants. it is the same way that most of the assassins of 13 november in paris, like their leader, who passed through greece, acted. the schengen treaty is the source of our problems, and today we want to go further into a system that has failed. the same applies to economic and monetary union. the council intends to strengthen it, whereas its failure is obvious. only a policy adapted to each state, based on a concerted exit from the euro, could enable the peoples of europe to avoid austerity, recession and sacrifice. the next brexit question could challenge your suicidal choices. the european people are demonstrating this in each of the elections in the member states. ladies and gentlemen, the europeans no longer want your technocratic, cosmopolitan and ultra-liberal europe. europeans want a europe of nations and freedoms: the only solution for a real future of european civilization.
mr president, it is clear that europe must regain its capacity to act. we've wasted a lot of time. so this is more than urgent. yes, of course, we must control our own borders. this debate is surreal, and it is obvious. if we cannot do this, schengen will die! schengen goes hand in hand with the control of our external borders. all the great powers of the world work this way. we have been asking for a coast guard and border guard corps for years. i hope we're finally going in that direction. yes, we also need a harmonised european asylum policy. what's the matter with him? what about the necessary dublin review? what about the list of safe countries, which is still not on the table, even though it has been discussed for many months? finally, and to move very quickly, yes, the european union must work towards a political solution to the crisis in syria. we have to give this country a future. it's vital. but all this, and i say this to the commission and to the council, will only be achieved if there is a political will shared by the commission and all the member states. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. we must strengthen and improve cooperation between all the intelligence services. we need mandatory data sharing for all sensitive data. i would also like to add the sharing of a file of foreign fighters, which does not yet exist at the moment i am speaking to you.
mr president, the european council of 17 and 18 december will first of all look once again at the problems of terrorism and mass immigration. it took the attacks in france and the influx of over a million immigrants for the brussels bureaucracy to become aware of the porosity of europe's external borders. but this awareness does not extend to the internal borders. how much credibility should your proposals be given? mr juncker said that a balance had to be struck between security and freedom, but that some measures were more dangerous for freedoms than effective for security. i am thinking of the systematic, centralised, computerized exploitation of transient data which will of course end up being sold, on request, to third countries seeking other interests. or gun control, which will of course spare terrorists, who rarely ask the prefecture for permission to carry kalashnikovs. the soil on which terrorism thrives is within the european union and it is the european union that has helped to install it there, without consulting the citizens.
mr president, yes to the european border and coast guard, yes to the strengthening of europol, yes to aid to turkey, jordan and lebanon to guarantee the shelter and safety of syrian refugees, yes to aid to africa, after the valletta european-african summit, after cop21, to help african states to prevent migration, to combat terrorism and to develop their economies without compromising the environment. yes, a hundred times yes. but with what money? these are community powers, these are community decisions, and the european budget is no longer a circle! one of the lessons to be learned from these crises is that the multiannual budgetary framework decided for seven years, fixed for seven years, and therefore based on yesterday's priorities, is totally unsuitable for today's emergencies and puts us in a dilemma: either we draw on the cohesion funds and sacrifice the poorest regions among us, or - and this is what is happening - we create ad hoc funds, trust funds, small satellite budgets, over which there is no effective parliamentary control, neither here nor in the national parliaments. this is an unacceptable dilemma. the next year should be devoted to the revision of the multiannual framework. let us take this opportunity to question the very principle of this rigid framework. we will not build europe by sacrificing the poor or by sacrificing democracy. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i think that we must distinguish between two things: on the one hand, the aid that turkey needs and that we must give it to resolve the refugee problem in a humane way, and on the other hand, the problem of turkey's application for membership of the european union. we know, and mr kamall has said it very brilliantly, that turkey will never join the european union because there will not be the necessary consensus of the 28 european peoples to enlarge the union to include turkey. i therefore regret that there has been a resurgence of confusion between these two subjects in recent days.
mr president, i agree with president juncker when he says that this is not the time for half measures. but he should listen to what mr weber says, namely that we do not need new ideas. i do not know what he is referring to, but what i do know is that if we do not want half measures, then the member states must support, implement, the new commission proposal to develop frontex into a tool to complement schengen and allow our borders to be guarded. that said, the commission must commit itself with the same urgency, with the same determination, to making the euro area's fiscal capacity and budgetary capacity work, because otherwise there will be no capital markets union and no convergence. and in this respect, it is much more than half measures that we need to convince the member states, to rebuild the european spirit, at a time when everyone is going to be engaged in a negotiation as difficult as the negotiation for or against brexit.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief. i would simply like to welcome the presence in this chamber of a delegation of steel unionists from germany, luxembourg, france and belgium. before voting on this report on the development of base metals, particularly steel, which is facing an unprecedented crisis, i would like to welcome these people to the house and thank them for their support.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to renew for five years the mandate of the president of the european banking agency (eba), which is under the control of the econ committee. i voted in favour of this text. the agency has the merit of being a counterweight to the european central bank (ecb), which is trying to usurp the eba's powers. as a reminder, eba is responsible for coordinating banking supervision for non-systemic banks in the union, whereas systemic banks are supervised by the ecb.
in writing. ‒ the three reports tabled by roberto gualtieri are aimed at renewing for five years the mandates of the presidents of the three agencies under the control of the econ commission: the european banking agency (eba), the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). i voted in favour of extending the mandate of andrea enria as head of the european banking agency (eba) for five years. the eba provides a useful counterweight to the ecb, which has repeatedly usurped the powers of the eba, which is in particular responsible for coordinating banking supervision for non-systemic banks in the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of extending the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba), mr andrea enria. i consider that the eba is a real counterweight to the all-powerful ecb, which has constantly tried to take over the prerogatives of the european banking authority, which is responsible for coordinating banking supervision for non-systemic banks in the european union. in order to carry out this mission, the eba therefore needs stable leadership and management and that is why i voted in favour of extending the mandate of its president.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to renew for five years the mandate of the president of the european banking authority, which coordinates banking supervision for non-systemic banks in the union and provides a counterweight to the ecb, which tends to give itself prerogatives that are not its own. that is why i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the european parliament's positive opinion on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba), andrea enria, for a further period of five years. under european rules, the eba chairman is elected by the board of the supervisory authority. the latter is also empowered to re-elect the president for an additional term, which requires prior assessment and approval by the european parliament. on 17 november, members of the european parliament heard the candidate for president. since he has met the expectations of the members of the european parliament, i support this report, which is in favour of extending his mandate.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to renew the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba), which is a significant counterweight to the excessive power of the ecb in coordinating banking supervision. i am committed to a balance between the various european institutions, although i denounce the excessive power they have in general, and i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i do not wish to support the policy of the european financial institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague roberto gualtieri on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of the renewal of andrea enria as president of the european banking authority (eba) for a five-year term. the eba provides a counterweight to the ecb, which has repeatedly usurped the powers of the eba. for the record, eba is responsible for coordinating banking supervision for non-systemic banks in the union, which are supervised by the ecb.
in writing. i voted in favour of extending the mandate of andrea enria, president of the european banking authority (eba). the eba is normally responsible for coordinating the supervision of non-systematic banks in the european union, in partnership with the european central bank (ecb). however, the ecb continues to appropriate the powers of the eba. by accepting the extension of the mandate of its president, we are expressing our support for this institution in the face of the excesses of the ecb.
in writing. ‒ the european banking authority (eba) was established in 2011. its mission is to contribute to the short, medium and long-term stability and efficiency of the financial system, in particular by improving the functioning of the internal market, through a 'satisfactory, efficient and consistent' level of regulation and supervision. it's a big show. the authority is responsible for underestimating the recapitalisation needs of european banks, taking into account only the depreciation of sovereign debt in their balance sheets and leaving out the effects of the economic crisis and the specific situations of certain countries (such as the explosion of the housing bubble in spain). its chairman, andrea enria, formerly head of banking supervision at the bank of italy, has been at the helm of the eba for the past five years. i vote against extending his term.
in writing. ‒ it is proposed to vote in favour of the renewal of the mandate of andrea enria as president of the eba for five years. the eba and its president provide a counterweight to the ecb, which has repeatedly usurped the powers of the eba.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to renew the mandate of andrea enria as eba president for five years is a good proposal. the eba provides a counterweight to the ecb, which has continuously assumed the powers of the eba (responsible for coordinating banking supervision for non-systemic banks in the union, which are supervised by the ecb). andrea enria has carried out his mandate correctly. i vote for the extension of his term.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european banking authority (eba). the first chairman of the authority, mr andrea enria, was appointed in 2011 by the board of supervisors following an open selection procedure for a five-year term. the council requested that this mandate be extended for a period of five years. after hearing the current president, the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament approved this request. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee. the term of office of the chairperson of the authority may be renewed only once, with the agreement of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to renew the mandate of andrea enria as eba president for five years is a good proposal. the eba provides a counterweight to the ecb, which has continuously assumed the powers of the eba (which is responsible for coordinating banking supervision for non-systemic banks in the union, which are supervised by the ecb). andrea enria has carried out his mandate correctly. i therefore vote in favour of extending his term.
in writing. ‒ we were asked to decide on the extension of the mandate of the eba president. it's a common procedure. it is good that parliament exercises control over the functioning of the bodies dependent on the institutions.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to re-appoint the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiap) for a period of five years. i abstained, as the presidency of gabriel bernardino did not call for any particular comment.
in writing. ‒ the three reports tabled by roberto gualtieri are aimed at renewing for five years the mandates of the presidents of the three agencies under the control of the econ commission: the european banking agency (eba), the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). i voted in favour of extending the mandate of the current president of the european banking authority (eba), but i abstained in favour of extending the mandate of gabriel bernardino as president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa).
in writing. i preferred to abstain on this report concerning the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. it is true that mr bernardino appears to be in line with the objectives set by the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and his mandate does not call for any particular comment. however, i reject the role played by this agency, which is currently focusing on harmonisation at european level.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to renew for five years the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, which is an independent advisory body to the european parliament. the main objective of the aeapp is to improve the protection of insured persons and pension beneficiaries. i abstained on that proposal in view of the profile of the current president.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the european parliament's positive opinion on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), mr gabriel bernardino, for a further period of five years. under european rules, the chairman of the eiopa is elected by the board of the supervisory authority. the latter is also empowered to re-elect the president for an additional term, which requires prior assessment and approval by the european parliament. on 17 november, members of the european parliament heard the candidate for president. since he has met the expectations of the members of the european parliament, i support this report, which is in favour of extending his mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague roberto gualtieri on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority was indeed very satisfied with the hearing given by the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs. the committee then approved the extension, possibly once, of his mandate for five years. the commission has therefore voted in favour of this proposal in the plenary session of the european parliament, following the opinion of this committee. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ for the eaapp, we abstain, as the profile of the current president, gabriel bernardino, does not call for any particular comment.
in writing. i abstained on this report concerning the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). the chairman, mr bernardino, seems to be in line with the objectives set by the eaapp and his mandate does not call for any particular comment. however, we are fundamentally opposed to the role played by this agency which is working for harmonization at european level.
in writing. ‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) was established in 2011 following the 2008 financial crisis and the update of financial supervision failures. this body brings together all the supervisory authorities of the insurance sector in the states participating in the reform known as solvency ii. it shall submit to the european commission its recommendations on the methodology for calculating the risk of premiums and provisions in non-life insurance. its objective is to safeguard the stability and efficiency of the financial system and to promote the protection of insured persons, members of pension schemes and beneficiaries. in fact, it is mainly concerned with 'removing unnecessary barriers to investment', which i believe is the exact opposite of its mission. the companies themselves criticise the fact that companies operating infrastructure assets are not monitored in this context. gabriel bernardino, a portuguese mathematician, has been its president since 2011 after working at the instituto de seguros de portugal (isp). in view of the results achieved so far, i vote against the extension of his mandate.
in writing. ‒ for the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, gabriel bernardino, the abstention was chosen, his profile not calling for any particular comment.
in writing. ‒ i have no particular objection to the proposal to extend the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, as gabriel bernardino's profile does not call for any comment. for that reason, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). gabriel bernardino, the first president of eiopa, was appointed in 2011 for a five-year term by the board of supervisors of eiopa following an open selection procedure. the council requested that this mandate be extended for a period of five years. after hearing the current president, the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament approved this request. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee. the term of office of the chairperson of the authority may be renewed only once, with the agreement of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to extend the mandate of the president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority gives rise to some reservations on my part because it does not seem to me to be fully justified. for that reason, i abstain.
in writing. ‒ we were asked to decide on the extension of the mandate of the president of the eaapp. it's a common procedure. it is good that parliament exercises control over the functioning of the bodies dependent on the institutions.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the reappointment of steven maijoor as head of the european securities and markets authority (esma) for a further five years. the latter was distinguished by its proximity to the city. for example, it postponed the implementation of the emir directive by one year and is currently delaying the entry into force of mifid 2. by delaying the procedure, esma is playing into the hands of london market operators who reject any market regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the extension of the mandate of the current president of the european banking authority (eba), but i voted against the renewal of steven maijoor as president of the european securities and markets authority (esma): his very pro-city positions have, for example, led the esma to postpone the implementation of the emir directive by one year and to delay the implementation of mifid 2 from now on. while the commission prepared the text in 2010-2011, for adoption in co-decision in 2014, entry into force in 2018 shows that the esma is dragging its feet, to the greatest benefit of market operators in london who fear this regulatory overload. the fact that such a major text can only come into force after nine years illustrates the structural dysfunction of market regulation as organised by the european institutions.
in writing. i voted against the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma), mr steven maijoor. the latter, a strong defender of the all-powerful city, has led the esma, for example, to postpone by one year the implementation of the emir directive, as well as to delay the implementation of mifid 2, two regulations intended to impose constraints on the players in the derivatives markets, which, it should be recalled, are largely responsible for the subprime crisis. however, the commission prepared this text as early as 2010-2011 with a view to a codecision procedure, i.e. involving the council and parliament, planned for 2014. however, esma is trying by all means to postpone its entry into force, which is still postponed to 2018 according to the latest news. this delay is only to the benefit of london market operators, who are concerned about being subject to new obligations that would frame their actions. finally, it is clear that the slow pace of the procedure in the case in question shows reluctance or even failure in the field of market regulation, contrary to the will shown by the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to renew the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority for five years. under the leadership of steven maijoor, esma is doing everything possible to delay the application of binding directives to stock exchange operators who fear any regulatory overload. they have thus succeeded in postponing the implementation of the emir directive by one year and delaying mifid 2. these various delays illustrate the dysfunctions that exist in the regulation of financial markets. i therefore voted against the extension of his mandate as head of esma.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes the european parliament's positive opinion on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma), steven maijoor, for a further period of five years. according to european rules, the chairman of esma is elected by the board of the supervisory authority. the latter is also empowered to re-elect the president for an additional term, which requires prior assessment and approval by the european parliament. on 17 november, the members of the european parliament heard the candidate for president. since he has met the expectations of the members of the european parliament, i support this report, which is in favour of extending his mandate.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report is to extend the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma). given the many positions taken in favour of certain financial markets and the fact that the authority has delayed the process of monitoring financial markets, i voted against this report. i have long advocated regulation of the financial markets, which have too often led to reprehensible excesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague roberto gualtieri on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority. the chairman of the european securities and markets authority was heard by the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs. the committee then approved the extension, possibly once, of his mandate for five years. the commission has therefore voted in favour of this proposal in the plenary session of the european parliament, following the opinion of this committee. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ for the esma, we vote against the re-appointment of steven maijoor whose very pro-city positions have, for example, led the esma to postpone the implementation of the emir directive by one year and to now delay the implementation of mifid 2.
in writing. i voted against the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma), mr steven maijoor. the latter expressed a very 'pro' city position, which led esma, for example, to postpone the application of the emir directive by one year, as well as to delay the application of mifid 2, two regulations that envisage imposing constraints on derivatives market participants, which, it should be recalled, are largely responsible for the subprime crisis.
in writing. ‒ the european securities and markets authority (esma) is one of the three regulatory institutions created by the european union in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. it is the sole authority responsible for the harmonisation of european technical standards and the financial stability of the eu for credit rating agencies registered in europe. but although it identified many flaws in the sovereign debt rating process, it issued only one monetary sanction: a symbolic fine of €30,000 against the canadian agency dbrs, for its "negligence". in short, esma is not playing its intended role. its chairman, steven maijoor, former dean of the school of business at maastricht university and former ceo of the afm, the dutch regulatory authority, has been in office since 2011. he recently said about the tobin tax on financial transactions: "we must make rules at 28 or not at all", a way of burying the project. it is also responsible for the postponement, to the greatest benefit of the financial sector, of the mifid ii directive, which is supposed to improve market surveillance. i vote against extending his mandate as head of esma.
in writing. ‒ for esma, the enf group voted against the re-appointment of steven maijoor, whose very favourable positions towards the financial industry have, for example, led esma to postpone the implementation of the emir directive by one year and to now delay the implementation of mifid ii. the commission prepared the text in 2010-2011, adopted it in co-decision in 2014 and it is expected to enter into force in 2018, but esma is dragging things out in level 2, to the greatest benefit of market operators in the uk in particular, who fear this regulatory overload. the nine-year delay in the entry into force of a central market regulation text illustrates the structural dysfunctions of market regulation as organised by the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority, steven maijoor, does not seem appropriate. in his capacity as prime minister he has shown that he is more concerned with the interests of the city of london than with the interests of the peoples of europe. it was under his mandate that esma postponed the implementation of the emir directive by one year and delayed the implementation of mifid ii. while the commission prepared the text in 2010-2011, for adoption in co-decision in 2014, entry into force in 2018 shows that the esma is dragging its feet, to the greatest benefit of market operators in london who fear this regulatory overload. that is why i am voting against the extension of mr maijoor's mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority (esma). steven maijoor, the first chairman of esma, was appointed in 2011 for a five-year term by the board of supervisors of esma following an open selection procedure. the council requested that this mandate be extended for a period of five years. after hearing the current president, the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament approved this request. i voted in accordance with the opinion of this committee. the term of office of the chairperson of the authority may be renewed only once, with the agreement of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the extension of the mandate of the president of the european securities and markets authority, steven maijoor, does not seem appropriate. in his capacity as prime minister he has shown that he is more concerned with the interests of the city of london than with the interests of the peoples of europe. it was under his mandate that esma postponed the implementation of the emir directive by one year and delayed the implementation of mifid ii. while the commission prepared the text in 2010-2011, for adoption in co-decision in 2014, entry into force in 2018 shows that the esma is dragging its feet, to the greatest benefit of market operators in london who fear this regulatory overload. that is why i am voting against the extension of mr maijoor's mandate.
in writing. ‒ we were asked to decide on the extension of the mandate of the president of esma. it's a common procedure. it is good that parliament exercises control over the functioning of the bodies dependent on the institutions.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. the report aims to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, but it also provides for exchanges of information and includes provisions on the exchange of personal data, which i find unacceptable. moreover, these agreements seem to be part of the prospect of a potential accession of bosnia-herzegovina, and i am totally opposed to this enlargement.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the procedure for the conclusion of an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between europol and bosnia and herzegovina. the aim of the agreement is to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious forms of crime. this cooperation shall provide for exchanges of information concerning expertise, general reports, the results of strategic analyses, criminal investigation procedures, methods of crime prevention, etc. the agreement also provides for participation in training activities, the provision of advice and support from europol in certain criminal investigations. unfortunately, the text of the agreement contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. this is not acceptable, nor is the idea behind the report, namely the accession of bosnia-herzegovina to the european union. i have therefore decided to abstain on this text which makes some interesting proposals but unfortunately contains two aspects which we cannot support.
in writing. ‒ on the basis that bosnia and herzegovina is a potential candidate country and a close neighbour of the european union, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina, in order to improve the effectiveness in preventing and combating serious forms of crime. unlike the agreement with the united arab emirates, this draft agreement contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. the rapporteur, my colleague from the league of the north, lorenzo fontana, was forced to submit this report, which is unacceptable, because the conclusion of this agreement is part of the process of bosnia-herzegovina's accession to the european union.
in writing. i abstain on this report on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. while this text is intended to be a positive one, namely to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious forms of crime, the proposed measures do not seem to me to be relevant. the agreement contains provisions on the exchange of personal data which are unacceptable. the fight against crime does not justify this measure which is truly liberticidal for our fellow citizens. we must start by applying the laws in force, zero tolerance in criminal matters and, above all, contrary to the aim of this report, stop this forced enlargement which only increases the risks associated with this europe of the sleeve. finally, it should be remembered that bosnia-herzegovina is unfortunately still a narco-state and its structural instability does not allow for any prospect of future membership of the european union.
in writing. ‒ with the aim of bosnia and herzegovina's accession to the european union, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement with the country on operational and strategic cooperation aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the fight against and prevention of crime in a country that is particularly affected by this scourge. this cooperation shall include exchanges of information on criminal investigation procedures and methods of crime prevention. the agreement also provides for exchanges of personal data. we are opposed to any enlargement of the european union and therefore to the accession of bosnia-herzegovina. nevertheless, i think it is important in the present context to strengthen our cooperation in the fight against crime. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the consultation procedure and concerns the conclusion by the european union of a new agreement to strengthen police cooperation between europol and bosnia and herzegovina. we have insisted that in future the rules should include a review clause for such agreements and that parliament should have a say. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. i have voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be balanced.
in writing. i supported this report on the conclusion of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. the aim of this agreement is to improve our trade with bosnia and herzegovina, a neighbour of the european union, in order to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of crime.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to promote the prevention and fight against organised crime in bosnia. any form of coordination to help combat the growth of criminal organisations is of course commendable. the european union has already made a major contribution to the process of democratization in bosnia-herzegovina. although we condemn the constant expansion of the field of the fight against the european union, it is already important to fight against its consequences. however, the sharing of personal data is an attack on the freedoms that the national front and i have always fought for. i am opposed to the enlargement of the union and the exchange of personal data, and i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this debate because i do not want a rapprochement between bosnia and herzegovina and the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report by mep lorenzo fontana on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. the rapporteur had proposed rejecting the agreement, in line with his party's traditional position of rejecting any form of cooperation between security authorities at european level, but was placed in the minority in the vote in parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). however, i believe that the circulation of information and the sharing of intelligence are essential to identify and track down criminals and terrorists. i believe that the potential of europol to gather and aggregate information from national authorities is under-exploited. that is why, unlike the rapporteur, i supported the agreement to establish operational and strategic cooperation between the bosnian authorities and europol, which is essential in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and other areas of equal priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fontana report on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. the rapporteur had originally proposed rejecting the agreement establishing operational and strategic cooperation between the bosnian authorities and europol, but it was voted down, so that the report now before us reflects the position of the epp group. this cooperation agreement should make it possible to combat transnational crime more effectively. to combat this scourge, it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between third countries and the european union, which will be the case with this agreement. that decision has been adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve the effectiveness of crime prevention and combating between the european union and bosnia and herzegovina by signing cooperation agreements between europol and that country.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. the agreement contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. this is unacceptable. the conclusion of this agreement is also in line with bosnia and herzegovina's potential accession to the european union. the national front is opposed to this enlargement. however, i condemn the attitude of the socialist group in voting for this report. the vast majority of socialist members refused to take part in the vote because the rapporteur is a member of the enl group. that sectarianism is why i abstained instead of voting against the report.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. he claims to be fighting terrorism. but it allows for the exchange of personal data in an extremely reckless manner.
in writing. i abstained on this report by a member of our group on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. although the text is intended to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious forms of crime, the proposed measures do not seem to be relevant. one of the reasons i object is that the agreement contains provisions on the exchange of personal data which cannot be accepted. this exchange represents an infringement of the freedom of our citizens, which we cannot tolerate, even in the fight against crime. instead of threatening the freedom of our citizens, we should start by enforcing the existing laws, zero tolerance in criminal matters and, above all, by stopping this forced enlargement which only increases the risks.
in writing. ‒ the european police office europol concludes agreements with certain third countries for mutual cooperation in the prevention of organised crime and terrorism and for the exchange of personal data. this is an agreement with bosnia-herzegovina. it is also noted that a review of europol is under way, in particular on the procedures for concluding such international agreements and to ensure better safeguards on the use of personal data. i have no hope in this new legislation, as amended by the right. i am voting against this, mainly because the all-round exchange of data between agencies and systems with different mandates (europol, frontex, vis, eurodac) is contrary to fundamental rights. i am doing this because no real justification has been given for this agreement with bosnia-herzegovina. let's first let this country have a functioning state.
in writing. ‒ in order to improve the effectiveness of the prevention and fight against serious crime, and in particular in view of the fact that bosnia and herzegovina is a potential candidate state and a close neighbour of the european union, europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina. the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement provide for exchanges of information which may include expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, as well as the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of personal data. this is unacceptable. the conclusion of this agreement is also in line with the prospect of bosnia and herzegovina's potential accession to the european union. we are opposed to this enlargement.
in writing. ‒ europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina. the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement shall provide for exchanges of information and provisions on the exchange of personal data. this is unacceptable. the conclusion of this agreement is also in line with the prospect of bosnia and herzegovina's potential accession to the european union. i am opposed to this enlargement. that is why i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. the aim is to improve the fight against transnational crime by improving cooperation between the bosnian authorities and the european police office.
in writing. ‒ europol has started the procedure for concluding an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina. the terms of cooperation governed by the operational and strategic agreement shall provide for exchanges of information and provisions on the exchange of personal data. this is unacceptable. in addition, the conclusion of this agreement is in line with the prospect of bosnia and herzegovina's potential accession to the european union. i am opposed to this enlargement. that is why i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this strategic agreement is a necessary instrument to strengthen our cooperation with bosnia and herzegovina in preventing and combating terrorism and crime. i do not understand why we should reject it, as the rapporteur originally proposed. that's irresponsible of you. it is in the interests of our countries to develop their relations in this area, because terrorism and crime unfortunately know no borders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between bosnia and herzegovina and europol. the decision calls on the commission to assess, after the entry into force of the new europol regulation, the provisions contained in the cooperation agreement, in particular those relating to data protection, and to inform parliament and the council of the conclusions of this assessment and, if appropriate, to make a recommendation with a view to authorising the opening of international renegotiation of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following a request from ireland. this european fund was set up to provide assistance to workers suffering the consequences of a crisis in a given sector or changes in the economic structures of the member states linked to international competition. the purpose of this measure is to mobilise the fund for 108 workers made redundant by paw international, a company in the machinery and equipment repair and installation sector. support will also be given to 108 young people who are 'neets' (young people without jobs, qualifications or training). i therefore support this aid for the reintegration of these workers into the labour market and financial support for these young people, who are actually suffering the disastrous consequences of european economic policies.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the changes affecting the organisation of international trade and the increase in global competition, paw international, which operates in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment, has made redundancies in 108 employees working in the south of dublin. following this decision, the irish authorities requested the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to the amount of €442 293. the fund, unless exceptional circumstances warrant it, helps workers who are faced with the crisis in a given sector and/or economic changes linked to international competition. workers must not pay the price of increased globalisation which all too often benefits a global hyperclass that cares little about the consequences of its actions. that is why i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 108 workers in south dublin by paw international, a company involved in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment, the irish authorities applied for assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund. the fund is able, 'under certain [increasingly] exceptional circumstances', to assist workers suffering the consequences of a crisis in a given sector or of economic changes linked to international competition. i voted in favour of granting eur 442 293 to 108 displaced workers to help them reintegrate into the labour market and support for 108 young people who are 'neets' (unemployed, unskilled and untrained). i therefore voted in favour of this report, knowing that this 'adjustment fund' is only a starting point: if the european union really wants to combat the harmful effects of globalisation, it must renounce the dogma of the free movement of goods and people and no longer stand in the way of the introduction of protectionist measures. yes, it is the causes of these mass layoffs that should be tackled by protecting european workers from the ravages of globalisation.
in writing. i have of course supported this report on the granting of the european globalisation adjustment fund to the 108 employees of pwa international ltd, a maintenance, repair and overhaul company, which is a subsidiary of the british company pwa. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. however, despite obstacles related to trade agreements, on 10 october 2013, when the pwai board of directors announced a plan to phase out the closure over an 18-month period, with the final closure scheduled for june 2015, it confirmed that the decision to close the pwai site was not at all due to the employees, as productivity and efficiency had increased and all important targets had been met or exceeded, for example, annual revenues, profits, health and safety, environmental the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health and safety network. destroys everything in its path.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is to grant ireland a financial contribution of over eur 442 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund following the dismissal of 108 employees by a company operating in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment. the purpose of this aid is to facilitate the reintegration of workers made redundant. these redundancies are directly linked to the current economic crisis and unfair competition from emerging countries. first, this request, made by the irish authorities, fulfils the conditions for granting financial contributions from the egf. on the other hand, we believe it is important to help irish workers who have been made redundant and who, like those in france, are suffering the disastrous consequences of unbridled globalisation. that is why i voted for this text.
in writing. ‒ meps voted to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the dismissed employees of pwa international in ireland. the amount allocated is eur 442 293. 108 redundant workers will receive training aimed at reintegrating them into the labour market and finding a job. the request made by ireland justifies intervention by the european globalisation adjustment fund, given the importance of asian competition in the maintenance, repair and overhaul of machinery and equipment sector. i voted in favour of this report, which shows the union's solidarity in the face of certain negative consequences of globalisation on employment.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report proposes to mobilise eur 442 293 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the benefit of 108 licences of pwa international ltd in ireland (aircraft supplier and repairer) between december 2014 and april 2015. the egf helps people who have lost their jobs as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis. the egf shall have a maximum annual budget of eur 150 million for the period 2014-2020. i have supported this report because i believe that one of the purposes of the european union budget is to help the declining sectors to move towards a more sustainable economic model.
in writing. i supported the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help 108 workers made redundant in ireland following the closure of pwa international. the mobilisation of the egf will make it possible to finance a package of personalised services to ensure the reintegration of these workers into working life.
in writing. ‒ this application for an egf is a departure from the usual dossiers submitted by member states concerning the number of employees affected by the transfer of the activities of pwai, which specialises in the maintenance, repair and overhaul of aircraft engines, to its customers in north america and singapore. i nevertheless supported it because it is about the future of employees who will thus be offered the means to support their conversion, knowing that a hundred young people belonging to the neet category will have the opportunity to acquire initial vocational training which they currently lack. i am, however, concerned about a particularly interesting and useful fund which is being set up after the fact and with too long a delay. i ask the european union to be more proactive in anticipating these developments in sensitive sectors already identified (food, textiles, machinery and equipment, information and communication, etc.). in the field of aeronautics, the union must seek to distinguish itself by basing its industry (and the training of workers) on the materials of tomorrow, a way of anticipating the international situation in order to position itself in emerging and more promising markets.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in ireland, following the dismissal of 108 employees in dublin by paw international. more than eur 442 000 is to be allocated to these redundant workers with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. the allowance is also available to young people who are unemployed, have no qualifications or training. as a defender of workers affected by the scourge of globalisation, i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because i want to see support for european businesses and workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr victor negrescu, on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund at the request of ireland for the redundant employees of pwa international and a subcontractor. the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006, helps people who have lost their jobs. the fund will provide eur 442 293 for 108 redundant workers. this amount will be used to finance training, counselling and support services to promote the recruitment of these dismissed workers. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to have the european globalisation adjustment fund support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at pwa international ltd in ireland during the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 108 workers in south dublin by paw international, a company involved in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment, the irish authorities applied for assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund. the application in question concerns the granting of eur 442 293 to 108 dismissed workers for their reintegration into the labour market and support for 108 young 'neets' (young people without a job, diploma or training). we therefore vote in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it mobilises €442 293 for the reintegration into the labour market of around 100 workers made redundant in the repair sector in ireland.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 108 workers in south dublin by paw international, a company involved in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment, the irish authorities applied for assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund. this fund is intended to help workers who are suffering the consequences of a crisis in a particular sector or economic changes linked to international competition. the application in this case concerns the granting of eur 442 293 to 108 dismissed workers for their reintegration into the labour market and support for 108 young 'neets' (young people without a job, a diploma or training). redundancies are being hampered by structural changes in international trade and increased global competition. i voted for this text, which indirectly raises the question of the harmful effects of globalisation on employment.
in writing. i have of course supported this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the 108 employees of pwa international ltd, a maintenance, repair and overhaul company. the egf allocates eur 442 293 to help the reintegration of these workers, who are victims of the brussels policy and the rules it imposes.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns the mobilisation of eur 442 293 from the globalisation fund for the 108 workers made redundant by pwa international, a specialist in the servicing and repair of jet engines. the irish authorities claim that the redundancies at pwa international stem from the company's decision to strengthen its activities in north america and asia. for more than 10 years, asian-based customers have accounted for about 50% of pwai's business and us-based customers accounted for 40% of this business, compared to only 10% for european customers. the report also expresses some timid criticism of the eu's free trade agreements, particularly with korea, as a reason for the company's losses while us companies in the sector strengthen their positions in the asian market. i abstain in order not to deprive the irish workers. but in this case, as so often, it is simply a question of relocation subsidies.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 108 workers in south dublin by paw international, a company involved in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment, the irish authorities applied for assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund. this request concerns the granting of eur 442 293 to 108 dismissed workers for their reintegration into the labour market, as well as support for 108 young 'neets' (young people without a job, diploma or training). the redundancies are linked to structural changes in international trade and increased global competition, with the european union leaving countries totally unarmed. every euro that sovereign states can take back from this union that plunges them into misery must be taken back. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the aid was to help provide assistance of eur 442 293 to the 108 employees of pwa international, a company specialising in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment in the aeronautical sector, who had been made redundant. ireland successfully specialised in this sector in the 1990s. however, maintenance and repair activities in the aviation sector are now increasingly being located in asia, where the greatest expansions in aviation are taking place. ireland has therefore called on the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to support and help people who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in international trade due to globalisation (business closures, relocation).
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 108 workers in south dublin by paw international, a company involved in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment, the irish authorities applied for assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund. this request concerns the granting of eur 442 293 to 108 dismissed workers for their reintegration into the labour market, as well as support for 108 young 'neets' (young people without a job, diploma or training). the redundancies are linked to structural changes in international trade and increased global competition, with the european union leaving countries totally unarmed. every euro that sovereign states can take back from this union that plunges them into misery must be taken back. that is why i am voting for this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of over €400,000. the process of globalisation has opened up european markets to international competition, bringing economic and structural changes to our businesses. the union has set up a european globalisation adjustment fund to mitigate the effects of globalisation on european economies, but above all on workers. it was also important to show european solidarity with this country and this company.
in writing. ‒ following the dismissal of 108 workers in south dublin by paw international, a company involved in the repair and installation of machinery and equipment, the irish authorities applied for assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund. this fund is intended, in certain exceptional circumstances, to help workers who are suffering the consequences of a crisis in a particular sector or of economic changes linked to international competition and unbridled free trade. the redundancies are linked to structural changes in international trade and increased global competition. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the objection relates to a list submitted by the commission of 'invasive alien species' such as the american lobster, the pacific oyster and the african black-spotted goby. the list follows regulation 1143/2014 voted by the european parliament on 16 april 2014. in this list, pests are not included when they should be. other species, however, are included without any prior assessment of their harmfulness. i therefore supported this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which stresses in particular that the list of invasive alien species (american lobster, pacific oyster, black-spotted goby from africa, asian hornet, etc.) proposed by the commission has been criticised from all sides because it omits major invasive species. the non-binding nature of this objection will not prevent the commission proposal from being implemented as it stands, but it was necessary to point out the lack of seriousness in the preparation of this list.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns an objection to the adoption of the list presented by the commission concerning 'invasive alien species' (american lobster, pacific oyster, black-spotted gobi from africa, etc.). some harmful species should really be included and are not (the assessments are not yet completed) while others are included before the assessment, which may affect the economic activities that exploit them. the commission therefore presented a list on a heterogeneous basis. i therefore support this objection.
in writing. ‒ the objection concerns a list of species considered invasive by the european commission, such as the american lobster and the pacific oyster. it turns out that a number of species are not included in this list, while others are noted without having been studied beforehand, thus threatening the activities of the economic operators who exploit them. that is why i voted for this objection.
in writing. ‒ this resolution proposes to oppose the european commission's decision on a proposal for a list of 36 invasive alien species (ias) of eu concern. this list was proposed by the commission under the new legislative framework to prevent their introduction and manage their spread. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. many of the most problematic species are not included in the draft list, while at the same time some species are included that are not capable of causing serious negative consequences. i also considered that the commission's decision lacked scientific support and supported this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection which opposes the european commission's decision on a proposal for a list of 36 invasive alien species (ieas) of concern to the eu. this list was proposed by the commission under the new legislative framework to prevent the introduction of eee and manage its spread. in voting for this objection, i criticise the fact that no group of experts was consulted, especially since there is in fact no group of experts at the commission on this subject. thus, many of the most problematic species are not included in the draft list, while some species that are not in a position to cause serious negative consequences are included.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this debate because i am opposed to the commission's text on the subject.
in writing. ‒ as it is entitled to do, parliament votes today to oppose the adoption by the commission of an implementing regulation. in this case, it is the list of exotic species, i.e. alien, animal or plant species, considered to be invasive and potentially dangerous either for native species, the environment and biodiversity, or even for human health. their presence in lands not their own can also have a significant economic impact. the best-known example is the asian hornet, the enemy of our bees. it is estimated that these species represent the second largest cause of biodiversity loss in the world. it is therefore not an ancillary problem. the resolution of the european parliament is overwhelming: dubious methodology, no risk assessment or 'wet finger', disregard for the opinions of the competent national authorities or interested parties, etc. everything contributes to making the list presented by the brussels commission a 'political' list, sloppy, incomplete, useless. it is a pity that the treaties confer quasi-legislative powers on the commission and that the procedure for opposing them is so difficult to implement. but if it is a question of preventing brussels from doing harm, i can only support this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by colleagues pavel poc and renate sommer on the objection under rule 106 concerning the list of invasive alien species. i regret that no expert was consulted by the european commission to draw up this list, which must be supported by scientific evidence. the objection therefore focuses primarily on the procedure under review. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to amend this list and to add also certain dangerous species which are not included.
in writing. ‒ the objection relates to a list submitted by the commission concerning 'invasive alien species' (american lobster, pacific oyster, african black-spotted goby, etc.). it follows regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 as voted by the european parliament on 16 april 2014. the commission was required to submit a first list by 2 january 2016. some harmful species should really be included and are not (the assessments are not yet completed) while others are included before the assessment, which may affect the economic activities that exploit them. the commission therefore presented a list on a heterogeneous basis. this objection was raised by the socialist pavel poc, who was already rapporteur during the 2014 vote, and the elected members of the national front had supported his proposal at the time. we voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it has the merit of highlighting the shortcomings of the european list of 'invasive species', even though it has the merit of including the asian hornet.
in writing. dominique martin supported this objection. the european commission has submitted a list of "invasive alien species", including the american lobster, the pacific oyster and the african black-spotted goby. however, this list is incomplete and arbitrary: some harmful species that should be included are not, while others are included automatically even though the evaluations are not yet complete. the inclusion on the list may adversely affect the economic activities that exploit them. the commission seems to have used, as it often does, arbitrary and heterogeneous criteria in drawing up its list. that is why we support this objection.
in writing. ‒ in april 2014, the european parliament endorsed the principle of monitoring invasive alien species to eradicate them when necessary. the commission has therefore established by means of implementing acts the list of species to be monitored. the resolution before us is critical of this list. indeed, it appears that 'the reasons for including a species in the draft union list are guided by political rather than scientific criteria'. as a result, "many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not on the list. for example, species of mammals and plant species that are widespread and rapidly spreading with significant and well-documented negative consequences for human health are not included in the list. the resolution also condemns the lack of information on the subject by parliament, since the documents were not sent in due time and in an appropriate manner. i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the objection relates to a list submitted by the commission concerning 'invasive alien species' (american lobster, pacific oyster, african black-spotted goby, etc.). it follows regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 as voted by the european parliament on 16 april 2014. the commission was required to submit a first list by 2 january 2016. some harmful species should really be included and are not (the assessments are not yet completed) while others are included before the assessment, which may affect the economic activities that exploit them. the commission therefore presented a list on a heterogeneous basis. that objection is quite valid, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which opposes the commission's decision on a list of 36 invasive alien species deemed of concern to the european union. this list was proposed by the commission under the new legislative framework to prevent the introduction of eee and manage its spread. the text criticises the procedure used by the commission, in particular the lack of consultation of experts in the field. the commission's proposed list is criticised for not including a large number of problematic species, while it includes some species which are not capable of causing serious damage. the text calls for a review of the commission's decision and the addition of dangerous species to the list.
in writing. ‒ the objection relates to a list submitted by the commission concerning 'invasive alien species' (american lobster, pacific oyster, african black-spotted goby, etc.). it follows regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 as voted by the european parliament on 16 april 2014. the commission was required to submit a first list by 2 january 2016. some harmful species should really be included and are not (the assessments are not yet completed) while others are included before the assessment, which may affect the economic activities that exploit them. the commission therefore presented a list on a heterogeneous basis. that objection is quite valid, and i shall vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution on the list of invasive alien species. my aim is not simply to reject the european commission's proposal, which is a good one. but on the contrary, to ask the commission to list better invasive alien species. many of the most problematic species are not included in the draft list, while at the same time some species in the 36 that are not capable of having serious negative consequences are included. i want the most comprehensive list possible, even if an update is planned. i therefore voted for the commission to make a better list which is quickly applicable and supported by all because of its effectiveness. this is therefore a political signal from the european parliament to the commission.
in writing. ‒ i supported this text which opposes the commission's decision on a proposal for a list of 36 invasive alien species (eea) of concern to the european union. this list was proposed by the commission under the new legislative framework to prevent the introduction of eee and manage its spread. the procedure followed by the commission is problematic and no group of experts has been consulted; the commission has also proposed that the list of species which are likely to cause serious harm be amended to include those which are not likely to cause serious harm. the text seeks to ensure the safety of citizens by calling on the commission to review its decision and add dangerous species to the list.
in writing. ‒ the objection relates to a list submitted by the commission concerning 'invasive alien species' (american lobster, pacific oyster, black-spotted goby). some harmful species should really be included and are not (the assessments are not yet completed) while others are included before the assessment, which may affect certain economic sectors. the non-binding nature of this objection will unfortunately not prevent the list from being applied, although it has the merit of including the asian hornet. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection against the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing or based on genetically modified maize. the report refers to the unsatisfactory evaluations by the european food safety authority (efsa) and the fact that the president of the european commission, jean-claude junker, promised that 'there will be no new gmos without a consensus'. moreover, the gmo in question is a threat to public health and to the food sovereignty of the european peoples and the countries that could grow them. i am strongly opposed to monsanto's placing gmos on the market, so i support this objection. however, i regret that the first objection identical to this one by sylvie goddyn (eld) was rejected, as the other members refused to raise a joint objection with the eld group.
in writing. ‒ this objection, which calls for opposition to the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing or based on genetically modified maize nk603xt25, is supported by a coalition of greens/s&d/efdd/gue. my colleague from the national front, sylvie goddyn, had made an identical objection but it was not accepted, whereas it is customary in such cases to make a joint objection. the reason for this objection is twofold: firstly, the efsa assessments are unsatisfactory and, secondly, commission president juncker had promised 'no new gmos without consensus'. in the end, the gmo in question, which is tolerant of glyphosate and its derivatives, is a threat to public health and the food sovereignty of europeans. as a person who is hostile to monsanto's gmos, i supported this objection.
in writing. ‒ i tabled an objection with 3 other meps from 3 different political groups to oppose the placing on the market of monsanto's nk603 x t25 gm maize. it is not just a question of refusing this roundup-resistant gmo, as we now do for every gmo, because they also increase the dependence of our farmers on the companies that sell them by franchising their seeds. but it is also a matter of defending the prerogatives of the european parliament in the face of a european commission which continues to decide alone, without listening to the majorities that speak in our assembly. there is a clear denial of democracy in the process of authorizing gmos.
in writing. ‒ the objection is raised by a coalition of greens/s&d/efdd/gue. an identical objection was raised by sylvie goddyn. contrary to the practice of previous presidents (which is the recommendation of the committee secretariat), the other members refused to raise a joint objection with the enl group. both objections were therefore tabled in committee, only the 'adverse' objection was accepted. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to ionising radiation. the gmo in question, which is tolerant of glyphosate and its derivatives, is a threat to public health and food sovereignty for europeans and the countries that will grow them. the grounds for the objection put to the vote in plenary are essentially political, deploring the fact that juncker does not keep his promises. that is why my group tabled three amendments in plenary, recalling the danger posed by glyphosate and the adoption of gmos, the many flaws in the efsa opinion, but also the risk to the sovereignty of peoples and farmers.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns an objection (identical to the one submitted by enl) to the nk603xt25 maize. the efsa assessments are unsatisfactory, especially since president juncker promised 'no new gmos without consensus'. the gmo in question is a threat to public health and food sovereignty of europeans and the countries that will grow them and it is clear that we must show our hostility to monsanto's gmos. three amendments were tabled by our group and i decided to vote for this report even though it is not binding on the commission.
in writing. ‒ this non-binding objection is to signal parliament's disagreement with the european commission regarding the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize. jean-claude juncker had made it clear that no new gmo would be placed on the market without prior consensus. it turns out that once again the commission is abandoning any democratic process in order to meet the expectations of the us multinationals, in this case monsanto. in the light of the evaluations of the european food safety authority, the gmo in question represents a real threat to public health but above all a danger to our farmers and to the food sovereignty of europeans. nevertheless, we deeply regret the sectarianism of the other parliamentary groups who did not wish to make a joint objection with the enl group. it should be recalled that sylvie goddyn also objected to the placing on the market of this gmo. i therefore voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the resolution on the objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk603xt25. the text seeks to request the withdrawal of the authorization of a gmo maize produced by the multinational monsanto, which tolerates a glyphosate herbicide classified as "probably carcinogenic" by the who. despite the alarming findings of the who, the commission decided to authorise maize nk603xt25 and mon87427 for human and animal consumption, on the basis of a favourable opinion from the european food safety authority. such a divergence of analysis on a crucial subject such as the health of european citizens, and this at a time when who studies are renowned for their integrity and scientific soundness, suggests that there is a need to review european procedures for the evaluation of gmos. the current framework seems to me to be far too lax and incapable of guaranteeing that gmos circulating in the union are not harmful to human health. following the adoption of this resolution, i expect the commission to put forward a credible proposal to establish a new european framework for the authorization of gmos.
in writing. ‒ this resolution proposes to oppose the european commission's decision on the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk 603 x t25. firstly, it should be recalled that this authorisation decision derives directly from the mandate given to the commission by the european parliament and the council in the context of a legislative text concerning labelling and traceability requirements adopted in 2003 (regulation (ec) no 1829/2003). this objection, which is motivated mainly by ideological considerations, is however based on strong arguments which can be criticized. firstly, the european commission has complied with the procedure in place for the authorisation of gmos. in addition, the european food safety authority (efsa) conducted a study and concluded that the plant in question posed no risk to human health or the environment. i would add that the authorization of the placing on the market of gmos is ultimately a matter for the member states and that france has not opposed this. for these reasons, i voted against the objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection by the s&d, greens, gue and efdd groups, supported by the enf. they base their objection on the fact that the european commission has exceeded its powers by authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize. on the contrary, the commission followed the procedure in place for the authorisation of gmos, including an analysis by the european food safety authority (efsa) on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment before issuing a proposal for authorisation. whether or not the product is placed on the market is the responsibility of the member states which have spoken in the council (france abstained). i also regret the commission's lack of respect for the european parliament, which published the marketing authorization before the objection was voted on in plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report was aimed at introducing a new genetically modified organism to the market. while president juncker promised that no gmos would be authorised without consensus, i wanted to oppose this new introduction. tolerating glyphosate and its derivatives, this gmo is going to pose a real food health problem. i voted against this report, because i am firmly opposed to the introduction of gmos into our market.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i am against gm maize.
in writing. ‒ this is definitely not the commission's day: parliament will again oppose one of its implementing acts, without this being binding on the commission. the purpose of the act in question is to authorize the placing on the market of genetically modified maize. in defiance of the most basic precautionary principle and above all in defiance of the very clear positions which this parliament took a few months ago on gmos. but how can it be surprising: as an independent body in the face of the will of the people, how could the commission not be so in the face of opposition from its representatives? i voted in favour of this text. i would like to denounce the stupid attitude, excuse the term, which led our colleagues to refuse to take account of the opposition proposal of the enl group in the committee on the environment and its amendments in plenary. for purely political and partisan reasons, even though, pursuing the same aims, these proposals would only have strengthened the text. if a group you don't like tabled a resolution saying the sky is blue when the weather is fine, would you vote against it too?
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by my colleagues bart staes, guillaume balas, lynn boylan and eleonora evi on the objection under rule 106 concerning the authorisation of genetically modified maize nk603xt25. the commission has been accused by some political groups, led by the greens, of not having followed the authorisation procedure for genetically modified organisms. the european food safety authority has conducted a study which concluded that maize is safe for humans, animals and the environment. in particular, the marketing authorisation is currently a matter for the member states. that resolution was adopted, and i regret it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which was intended to signal, symbolically because it had no legal force, that the commission had exceeded its powers by authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified maize nk603xt25. the commission did not exceed its powers, the council having authorised the placing on the market after analyses by the european food safety authority. moreover, it is up to the member states to decide whether or not to allow the introduction of this gmo into their territories. there was therefore no need for such a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the objection is raised by a coalition of greens/s&d/efdd/gue. an identical objection was raised by sylvie goddyn. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in foodstuffs. but the validation of this objection in plenary will not be binding on the commission. we voted for that objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it has the merit of calling the commission to order, which is far too favourable to gmos and does not pay enough attention to the warnings of the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of this objection. we are firmly opposed to the use of this gmo which is a threat to public health and the food sovereignty of states. it is also a matter of principle: commission president juncker promised 'no new gmos without consensus'. it will not surprise anyone to see him go back on his word, but we cannot tolerate the president of the commission lying to the citizens and getting away with it.
in writing. ‒ in 2010 monsanto submitted an application in the netherlands for the placing on the market of food containing genetically modified maize nk603 x t25. the european food safety authority (efsa) has issued a favourable opinion in 2015. we now know that it is incompetent in the field of gmos. the commission therefore plans to authorise the use of this maize for human and animal consumption for 10 years. note that this maize is resistant to glyphosate-containing herbicides. however, on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, which is the specialized agency for the study of cancer of the world health organization, classified glyphosate as a probable carcinogen for the human species. the resolution condemns this abject decision which is fuelling the cancer epidemic in europe and calls on the commission to repeal its implementing decision. i vote for it.
in writing. ‒ considering that the efsa assessments are unsatisfactory and, above all, that president juncker promised 'no new gmos without consensus', the members of the envi committee want to signal their legitimate opposition. the gmo in question, which is tolerant of glyphosate and its derivatives, is a threat to public health and food sovereignty for europeans and the countries that will grow it. i voted in favour of that objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize, tabled by the s&d, greens, gue and efdd groups and supported by the enf. the text says that the european commission has exceeded its powers by authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize. however, the commission followed the procedure for authorising these products, relying in particular on an analysis by the european food safety authority (efsa) which established the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment. the commission's proposal for authorization was forwarded to the council, which did not reject it, as france abstained. at present, the authorization of gm products is a matter for member states.
in writing. ‒ considering that the efsa assessments are unsatisfactory and, above all, that president juncker promised 'no new gmos without consensus', the members of the envi committee want to signal their opposition, which is more than legitimate. the gmo in question, which is tolerant of glyphosate and its derivatives, is a threat to public health and food sovereignty for europeans and the countries that will grow it. i voted in favour of that objection.
in writing. - i rejected that objection for one simple reason. what is contained in this resolution is simply not true. we can and must be very vigilant about gmos, but here the objection is based on the fact that the european commission has exceeded its powers by allowing the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize. the commission has followed the procedure for authorising gmos, including an analysis by the european food safety authority (efsa) of the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment, before issuing a proposal for authorisation. this proposal for authorization was then sent to the council, which did not reject it, france abstained. currently, the member states are responsible for the marketing authorisation. i wonder about this procedure, which is coming from the socialists in particular, who are criticizing the european commission, whereas the ruling left has said nothing to the council about this amm proposal. it's called a ruse, and i don't support it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection to the placing on the market of food and feed and ingredients containing or produced from genetically modified maize 'nk603 x t25', produced by monsanto. first, because it seems to me that the current procedure for authorising the placing on the market of gmos is neither satisfactory nor democratic, since each authorisation decision has been adopted by the commission without the support of a qualified majority of the member states. secondly, because we are strongly challenged by certain 'against' arguments: negative public opinion, insufficient risk assessment, the absence of a 90-day toxicity study and the precautionary principle. finally, because this case arises against the background of the case of glyphosate: the maize in question is tolerant to herbicides containing glyphosate, a substance under evaluation that could be harmful to health. this is not the time to go forward without caution: who, through the international cancer centre in lyon, classified glyphosate as a 'probable human carcinogen' in march 2015, while efsa said last november that it was 'unlikely' to pose a risk of cancer in humans.
in writing. ‒ the objection concerns the tolerance of glyphosate and its derivatives of the gmo in question, which is a threat to public health and food sovereignty of europeans and the countries that will grow it. the grounds for the objection put to the vote in plenary are essentially political, deploring the fact that juncker does not keep his promises. it is clear that i wish to express my hostility to monsanto's gmos and that is why i support this objection. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has rejected the commission's authorisation to import two gmos (nk603 and t25) for human consumption, exercising its right to oppose regulatory measures by the commission. this shows how little regard the commission has for the position of the european parliament on gmos. the commission has always granted the applications submitted and efsa has always given positive opinions on the applications for authorisation. the commission's decision, taken on 4 december, is contrary to the legislative revision proposal made in april 2015 allowing national bans, even though it was rejected by the european parliament last october as satisfying neither the supporters nor the opponents of gmos. the commission has also not yet followed up on mr juncker's promise to scrap the procedure for assessing applications and authorising/banning gmos in the eu. i voted to reject both these authorizations. the vote is a further political signal from the european parliament that the commission should finally review european legislation on gmos and that it should finally hear the voice of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ this report was drawn up in the wake of the luxleaks scandal and is similar in many respects to the taxe report. the conclusions of the two reports are similar in many respects. the themes are identical, namely combating aggressive tax competition at eu level and optimisation schemes. the damage to eu member states has been estimated at around €50-70 billion per year. and that's just for profit offshoring. the damage is between eur 160 and 190 billion if special tax schemes and agreements and fraud are included. i regret again the idea of replacing bilateral conventions with multilateral agreements under the aegis of the european union, instead of the states. i think that this report is redundant compared with the taxe report and contains demands which are not acceptable in favour of tax integration, while presenting recommendations which we support, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the own-initiative report prepared by anneliese dodds (s&d, uk) and ludek niedermayer (epp, cz) of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for several reasons. it not only sets out a number of recommendations to improve the tax transparency of companies, but also allows for the coordination and convergence of tax policies at european level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which is a duplicate of the taxe committee's proposals and contains some unacceptable demands, in particular in favour of 'tax integration'.
in writing. i abstained on this report which, while it has the laudable intention of fighting aggressive tax competition at union level, is once again taking the opportunity to grab a little more sovereignty from the member states. i regret that the members of the taxe committee have decided to replace bilateral conventions with multilateral agreements negotiated under the auspices of the union, which means that the member states have de facto lost control of these agreements. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good one, and i would like to thank him for his work. so you missed a spot.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to combat tax avoidance, tax optimisation and tax dumping within the european union itself, which cause a loss of between eur 160 and eur 190 billion for the member states. the rapporteur's recommendations are relatively close to those made in the taxe report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems, including the use of electronic data interchange systems, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the internet, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the internet, to the provision of electronic communications services, to the internet, to the internet, to the internet, to the internet, to the internet, to the internet, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the left, to the left, to the left, to the right. we regret, however, that the report contains some questionable proposals which will prove ineffective, such as the labelling of companies which use transparent tax practices. finally, we object to the abolition of bilateral conventions which weakens the ability of member states to monitor these agreements. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ this report is a recommendation to the european commission to promote transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies within the european union. it stressed the importance of introducing certain measures such as a country-by-country report for companies to improve tax transparency, a common consolidated corporate tax base to be gradually introduced and protective measures for whistleblowers. we must learn from the luxleaks scandal, which has exposed the unbridled and unfair competition in the tax field between member states. it is necessary to improve transparency in the field of taxation within the union by allowing for an increased exchange of information between member states. tax convergence and, eventually, tax harmonisation is the solution to the problem of unfair tax competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i welcome its adoption. the fight against tax fraud and evasion must be a priority in all member states in order to preserve fair competition between economic operators and to ensure tax justice. i believe that many of the measures in this report will help to meet this challenge. i particularly support the proposal for country-by-country reports on the profits, taxes and subsidies of large companies, although i regret that the amendment to exempt smes from such a mechanism has been rejected. i also wholeheartedly support the idea of a european definition of 'tax havens' and of countermeasures for those who use them. i believe that the establishment of a virtuous european corporate tax system necessarily requires increased protection for whistleblowers, as the recent luxleaks scandal has taught us. in this context, i very much welcome the idea of legal protection for whistleblowers, which is a necessary safeguard for greater transparency in tax systems in europe.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative initiative report makes recommendations to improve corporate tax transparency and the coordination and convergence of tax policies in the field of corporate taxation. this report is based on the work of the parliament's special committee on tax returns (taxe), chaired by my colleague alain lamassoure. the commission was set up in the wake of the luxleaks revelations and its recommendations were approved by the plenary on 26 november. the rapporteurs propose, in particular, the phased introduction by 2017 of a common corporate tax regime, a common definition of tax havens, and a series of legislative proposals to improve the exchange of information between national administrations on tax rules, for example. i voted in favour of the report, in support of its objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the dodds and niedermayer report, which follows up the analysis of the taxe commission (a special committee on tax records in the member states set up in february 2015 following the 'luxleaks' revelations) and makes concrete proposals on the taxation of multinational companies in europe. the text makes a major contribution to transparency through the country-by-country and sector-by-sector information that multinationals will be required to publish, the introduction of a new 'good taxpayer' label for companies that respect good tax practices and the mandatory disclosure of new tax measures by the european commission. i would like to make public the mechanism for declaring activity and taxing each country. finally, the report stresses the need for a european legal regime to protect whistleblowers.
in writing. ‒ multinational companies must pay their taxes where they make their profits! this report gives a definition of 'aggressive tax optimisation' and recalls a number of recommendations of the taxe committee, set up in the wake of the luxleaks scandal. these include country-by-country accounting reporting, reaffirming its public nature; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment (2007-2013). i also supported two amendments rejected by the right wing, calling for the creation of a fund for whistleblowers and for strict regulation of the tax optimisation industry, making this kind of manipulation impossible. in their efforts to play all the cards - with governments and multinationals - large audit firms too often flirt with conflict of interest.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was to combat aggressive tax competition vis-à-vis the euro area and to limit the possibilities for fraud. while nearly $200 billion is lost annually in this area, reform was widely expected. although the establishment of a system to protect whistleblowers, retaliatory measures against companies using tax havens and the revision of the code of conduct are certain advances, the states lose their sovereignty here. while bilateral conventions allowed states to control the specificity of their tax systems, this report advocates a global framework. i abstained because i was concerned about good tax policy and the sovereignty of the member states in this area.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because i am in favour of a policy of bilateral tax agreements.
in writing. ‒ the dodds-niedermayer report on corporation tax which we are voting on today is the logical counterpart to the report on tax returns adopted by the committee last month. it has the same theme: the fight against aggressive tax competition and against double non-taxation of companies, in particular multinationals champions of tax optimisation. i abstained on the final vote on this report because i support most of its proposals, which are also based on the oecd recommendations, with the exception of those which would give brussels any power to harmonise direct taxes. i have no more confidence in the commission in this area than in others. but it will be difficult to restore a little morality and justice to the race for the lowest possible tax, whose main victims are national budgets and captive taxpayers, smes and ordinary citizens. in france, the national assembly has just rejected the 'reporting by country' which would have required large transnational companies to publish their turnover, headcount, taxes paid, etc... country by country. the amendment could have been improved, but its rejection, at the request of the secretary of state for the budget, is still symbolic.
in writing. with the revelations of the luxleaks affair, the fight against tax evasion by large multinationals has become a matter of course. it is in this context that i supported the report by my colleague mr dodds on the introduction of rules at european level to prevent certain unscrupulous companies from using loopholes to avoid tax which could have been used to build schools and hospitals or to pay off the national debt. by offering greater protection to whistleblowers and by requiring companies to disclose the exact amount of their profits, tax justice will no longer be limited to empty words. we would have liked to go further with the reinforced supervision of the 'big 4' (main auditors), but this text already makes good progress. among these are the introduction of mandatory and public country-by-country reporting, the creation of a common consolidated tax base (ccctb), i.e. a single set of rules for cross-border companies to calculate taxable profits within the eu, the establishment of a common and convincing definition of tax havens, and the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings and the mandatory notification of new tax measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleagues anneliese dodds and luděk niedermayer to promote transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies. this report proposes concrete measures on the taxation of multinational enterprises in europe. the aim is to eliminate unfair tax practices that benefit certain large companies. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text because it makes concrete proposals on the taxation of multinational companies in europe, in particular on the transparency of each country's taxation system, the coordination of the tax base and the common definition of tax havens.
in writing. ‒ the dodds niedermayer own-initiative report follows the luxleaks scandal, but was launched in december 2014, three months before the special committee was set up. the theme is exactly the same: combating aggressive tax competition at union level and optimisation schemes. the damage at european level is estimated to be between €50 and €70 billion per year for profit shifting alone, and between €160 and €190 billion if special tax regimes and agreements and fraud are included. the idea of replacing bilateral conventions with multilateral agreements under the aegis of the union, which would speak with one voice, will again be deplored, since the states will thus lose control of these agreements. we abstain because there are positives and negatives.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it is in favour of fiscal integration, which i am opposed to. it is a pity, because its other recommendations, for example on the protection of whistleblowers and on country-by-country reporting for multinationals, are relevant.
in writing. i abstained on this report which, while it has the laudable intention of fighting aggressive tax competition at union level, is once again taking the opportunity to steal a little more sovereignty from the member states. i regret that the members of the taxe committee have decided to abolish bilateral conventions by means of multilateral agreements negotiated under the auspices of the union, which means that the member states have de facto lost control of these agreements to brussels. although i agree with some of the measures proposed, such as the regulation of free ports and retaliatory measures for companies using tax havens, i cannot support them.
in writing. ‒ the dodds-niedermayer resolution closes a year of fiscal wake-up in europe, initiated by the european parliament. the automatic and mandatory exchange of tax information, the audit and research work of the taxe special committee, its progressive report and the decision to renew the mandate of the committee, these advances are confirmed. the resolution, which was tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and endorsed by two co-rapporteurs from opposing political families, however, elaborates on the european parliament's positions and sets out new recommendations. the text also provides a more detailed assessment of the optimisation practices and the state of corporate taxation in the european union. it also calls for a rigorous and objective method for drawing up a european list of tax havens, with very comprehensive sanctions for all those who use it. it also supports increased transparency by proposing that any new tax measure (rebates, credits, special rates) be communicated to the other member states and added to a centralised register. because it crowns, on these and many other essential aspects, the protection of whistleblowers, the harmonisation of the corporate tax base, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks case, i.e. the practice of favourable tax agreements between luxembourg and a number of multinationals, this report proposes 'better tax coordination' within the eu. while the report contains good proposals such as the obligation for multinationals to publish their turnover by sector and country or the legal protection of whistleblowers, it also proposes clearly anecdotal measures such as the creation of a 'taxpayer loyal' label for companies that pay their taxes. why not a medal? in fact, this is very revealing of the spirit of this text which purports to combat tax evasion without really wanting to tackle those who practice it. in this context i shall refrain from commenting in order not to discourage good intentions without at the same time endorsing the weakness of the proposed measures.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report paints a worrying picture of the aggressive tax optimisation practices of multinationals, estimating the damage to the public finances of the member states at between eur 60 and 170 billion per year. the recommendations made are largely commendable and in line with the oecd's general plan (country reporting, acis, transfer price controls, etc.). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european union and the member states. it would also have been better to take further action on sanctions against consultancies involved in aggressive optimisation schemes, including strict separation of consultancy activities from government and business. in the end, the report more directly obliges the commission to commit itself to these reforms, but the conclusions are largely redundant with those of the special committee taxe, which leads to abstention on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the dodds niedermayer own-initiative report is largely duplicated by the taxe special committee report. it also follows the luxleaks scandal, but was launched in december 2014, three months before the special commission was set up, hence the redundancy. the theme is exactly the same: combating aggressive tax competition at union level and optimisation schemes. the damage at european level is estimated at between €50 and €70 billion per year for profit shifting alone, and €160 to €190 billion if special tax schemes and agreements and fraud are included. the conclusions are broadly similar, but the idea of abolishing bilateral conventions in favour of multilateral agreements under the aegis of the union, which would speak with one voice, is regrettable, since the states would thus lose control of these agreements. there are a few different proposals, such as the regulation of free ports, for more transparency. the proposal to strictly regulate conflicts of interest in consultancy firms was unfortunately rejected in committee. in view of these shortcomings, i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the promotion of transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies. the text recalls in particular that measures allowing for aggressive tax optimisation are incompatible with the principle of loyal cooperation between member states. the report, drawn up by the taxe committee, aims to combat tax evasion, which leads to distortions of competition that are harmful to growth and to eu businesses, especially smes.
in writing. ‒ the dodds niedermayer own-initiative report is largely duplicated by the taxe special committee. it also follows the luxleaks scandal, but was launched in december 2014, three months before the special commission was set up, hence the redundancy. the theme is exactly the same: combating aggressive tax competition at union level and optimisation schemes. the damage at european level is estimated at between €50 and €70 billion per year for profit shifting alone, and between €160 and €190 billion if special tax schemes and agreements and fraud are included. the conclusions are broadly similar, but it is regrettable that bilateral agreements should be abolished in favour of multilateral agreements under the aegis of the union, which would speak with one voice, since the states would thus lose control of these agreements. there are a few different proposals, such as the regulation of free ports, for more transparency. the proposal to strictly regulate conflicts of interest in consultancy firms was unfortunately rejected in committee. in view of these shortcomings, i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the dodds/niedermayer report, which promotes transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies within the union. this is a major issue which follows on from the excellent analytical work of the taxe committee chaired by alain lamassoure, which has made concrete proposals on the taxation of multinational companies in europe. our societies face major challenges, but not always have the financial means to achieve their ambitions. taxes are owed for the good of the community. if some people avoid this type of levy as much as possible, we must be able to return this money to the community without, of course, hindering the investment of our companies to remain efficient and competitive.
in writing. ‒ the luxleaks scandal (tax evasion and dumping) has once again demonstrated the need for further cooperation and fiscal convergence between member states. that is why i voted in favour of the report containing recommendations to the european commission to promote transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies within the union. the report proposes that a number of incentive and regulatory measures be put in place to this end. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. the report also recommends that the other member states be required to inform the other member states of any new tax measures they intend to adopt. parliament also called on the commission to establish a 'taxpayer loyal' label to promote good practice by companies that submit to the fair payment of taxes in the countries where they generate their profits.
in writing. ‒ following the luxleaks revelations, europeans have become aware of the urgency of tackling tax dumping. following the conclusions of the special committee of the european parliament, we propose in this report the mandatory exchange of information on all tax rescripts granted by each state and an accounting reporting country by country. we propose the creation of property registers to combat money laundering and the drawing up of a european list of tax havens. we are in favour of harmonising the corporate tax base, of the notification of any new tax measures by the member states and of the protection of whistleblowers. i also voted for the creation of a fund for whistleblowers and increased control of "optimisation" consultancies, but these socialist proposals were blocked by the right. nevertheless, all the measures proposed in this report are tools to put an end to the race to the bottom in europe. once again, parliament reaffirms its commitment to ending dumping and urges the european commission to do so. we expect an ambitious legislative proposal as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the dodds niedermayer own-initiative report is largely duplicated by the taxe special committee report. it also follows the luxleaks scandal, but was launched in december 2014, three months before the special commission was set up, hence the redundancy. the theme is exactly the same: combating aggressive tax competition at union level and optimisation schemes. the damage at european level is estimated at between €50 and €70 billion per year for profit shifting alone, and between €160 and €190 billion if special tax schemes and agreements and fraud are included. the idea of abolishing bilateral conventions in favour of multilateral agreements under the aegis of the union, which would speak with one voice, will again be deplored, since the states will thus lose control of these agreements. i have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the facts reported in this report are mostly accurate. nevertheless, we in the national front consider that foreign policy is a competence of the states and not of the european union. above all, we believe that european institutions, like states, should not interfere in china's internal political affairs. that is why i opposed this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text with a rare arrogance, when the european union is increasingly ill-placed to teach lessons. is this a way of blaming china for getting closer to russia?
in writing. i have firmly rejected this report, which is symbolic of the way in which the european union intends to arrogate to itself the privilege of having diplomatic relations with third states while pursuing a genuine policy of interference in them which does not respect the sovereignty of sovereign nations. the report's aim is to weaken relations between china and russia, as the european union continues to regard the latter as having divergent strategic interests, despite the geopolitical reality that the russian federation should be a preferred ally, particularly in the fight against islamist terrorism. of course, the report cannot help but highlight the human rights violations committed in china, while continuing its operation of attracting chinese capital. the 'double standards' typical of brussels institutions which like to be lecturers while continuing to profit from what they can. once again, the european union is wrong about foreign policy, as, alas, it is about so many other things.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu-china relations. the report stresses the importance of strengthening the strategic partnership with china so that it is mutually beneficial. china is an essential economic partner. in this context, the european union must cooperate with the country. the report also highlights the gaps in respect for human rights and democracy, which are proving to be very problematic. we must be cautious in the development of relations between the european union and china.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's position on the eu-china partnership, on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the union and china. welcoming the rapid economic development in china, the report stresses the importance for the union of ensuring a win-win partnership and deepening ties between citizens. it called on the member states to make the most of the development opportunities offered by these relations. the report also expresses a series of criticisms of the current authorities and the situation of human rights, democracy and freedoms in certain regions of china (tibet, hong kong, taiwan) or with regard to certain groups (tibetans). the report also points to the failure to respect international law, in particular the law of the sea, as china pursues an expansionist policy in the south china sea. i support the conclusions of this report and have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the european union and china should be an opportunity to take stock of cooperation between the two entities, but also to consider coordinated responses to global challenges such as terrorism, immigration, climate change and financial governance. the eu and china must move towards a strategic approach that is coordinated at both economic and political levels. but the strengthening of the partnership between the european union and china can only be achieved on the basis of mutual trust and transparency. this requires improved respect for human rights, freedom of expression and commitments to environmental protection by the chinese political authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague bas belder on relations between the european union and the people's republic of china. the european parliament, on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two entities, underlines the mutually beneficial role of the strategic partnership between china and the eu. personal exchanges must nevertheless be encouraged and strengthened to accelerate exchanges. the report also stresses the need for china's economy to diversify and recalls that the issues of human rights protection in china remain crucial. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which welcomes the 40th anniversary of eu-china relations as a source of inspiration for strengthening our strategic partnership with china. while welcoming progress in partnerships, the report remains clear-sighted towards china and calls on the beijing authorities to increase respect for human rights (death penalty, tibet, freedom of expression) and to de-escalate tensions in the south china sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text because the eu is interfering in china's internal politics. i believe that every state, including china, has the right to exercise its sovereignty over its territory. as for china's foreign policy, if there is a problem, it is the european states that should protest, not the european union.
in writing. i strongly opposed this report. as always, the european union, under the guise of 'diplomatic relations' with third countries, is allowing itself to interfere in a scandalous way with the sovereignty of sovereign nations. the report's apparent aim is to weaken relations between china and russia, the latter still considered by the european union to be unreliable and with divergent strategic interests. the eu is forgetting, perhaps deliberately, that the russian federation could be a valuable ally, particularly in the fight against islamist terrorism. of course, the report cannot help but point out that china is guilty of human rights violations, while continuing to attract as much chinese capital as possible to europe: the eu is once again proving its contempt for other countries.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the eu is mainly driven by short-term commodity and productivity concerns in asian markets. this is the narrow sense of the partnership and cooperation agreement defended by this report. the following is therefore an ode to neoliberalism against the chinese economic model and its protectionism which would mistreat european companies (which, however, practice social dumping on our soil). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. everything passes through it: from tibet, through ukraine and syria. at no time is there any mention of the role of the united states of america in the region or the settlement of disputes in the china sea. on the contrary, we should develop a comprehensive, not merely mercantile, 'common approach' with the latter. i vote against this lost opportunity, this neo-colonial style of dealing with china and the atlanticist hysteria that is in every line.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on relations between the european union and china. on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the union and china, the text recalls that the strategic partnership concluded between the two parties is a fundamental instrument in the search for common responses to a range of global challenges, such as global and regional security, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu-china relations. this year 2015 marks 40 years of our diplomatic relations with china. there have been changes in 40 years! and we need to change our software vis-à-vis our partners like china. we must not look kindly on them, but we must be able to get their respect, effectively and diplomatically. we have given too much of our know-how, too much of our technology to a country that will be ready in 2016 to wage a trade war against europe if it does not achieve market economy status by december.
in writing. ‒ over the past 40 years, the european union (eu) has established a series of privileged economic, diplomatic and trade links with china, such as the 1985 trade and cooperation agreement. in a world economic and geopolitical context of instability, it is necessary to preserve and strengthen the strategic relations with this country, which represents a considerable market for our industries and services. china is one of the union's leading trading partners in terms of both imports and exports. chinese investment also represents a considerable opportunity to expand the european fund for strategic investments and closer cooperation with the asian infrastructure investment bank. the success of an eu-china rapprochement would be an opportunity to raise our concerns about fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of the press and freedom of expression. for all these reasons, i supported the report on eu-china relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-china relations. the year 2015 marks the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between china and the european union, and provides an opportunity to discuss negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights. this type of closer cooperation could help to address common global challenges and threats such as illegal immigration, terrorism, climate change and global financial and market governance. the bilateral investment agreement (bia), currently under negotiation, could be an important tool to ensure fair treatment of companies in europe and china. it is worth noting that a chapter on sustainable development should be included, as economic growth has led to significant environmental problems and high inequalities in china. finally, we must stress that the human rights situation in china remains a cause for concern, in particular the unacceptable policies towards the tibetan people. i hope that the chinese leadership will reconsider their position and respect the universality of human rights. we must also continue to oppose strongly repressive draft laws or those aimed at unfairly weakening foreign ngos.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives an overview of the state of play in eu-china relations and encourages the strengthening of cooperation in various fields. these include the fight against terrorism, illegal immigration, security, climate change and global financial and market governance. the eu-china diplomatic relations celebrate their 40th anniversary and the conclusions of the eu-china summit of 19 june 2015 should be continued. it is also about strengthening eu-china relations in order to make progress in the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms. finally, it is important to continue to work together to improve the situation of environmental protection and to encourage china to take further action in this regard.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the ongoing negotiations on the eu-china partnership and cooperation agreement. this agreement should cover the fields of industry, agriculture, technology, energy, environmental protection, etc. the report recognises the need to address the challenges facing the eu and china together, including environmental issues. it stressed the need for european companies to respect international labour standards. it also deals with the issue of human rights (ngos, minorities, freedom of expression and the death penalty). it also shows the will to impose an economic model definitively converted to free trade and there are many parallels with ttip. the report also condemns chinese state subsidies to chinese companies and calls for greater involvement of china in the wto and the imf. finally, he incongruously urged china to intervene in the ukrainian issue. the negotiation of such agreements once again demonstrates the priority given to economic issues: china is a "big market" of 1.7 billion people. china is a major global player and the negotiation of this agreement, if it succeeds, will be interesting to follow. in the meantime, i've chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ in the face of the unprecedented increase in the number of conflicts in the world, this report aims to prepare the main themes to be addressed at the world humanitarian summit to be held in istanbul in may 2016. despite a rather promising approach to the new perspectives of humanitarian aid, including an emphasis on prevention rather than on one-off management, which is often costly and does not help empower affected countries, this report is actually polluted by special demands for migrants and a separation based on gender. considering that each state must remain competent to finance aid, any increase and any decision on new humanitarian or development aid measures should be taken by sovereign states. i therefore abstained on this text, which unfortunately risks giving rise to binding decisions for the states and depriving them of their competence in this area. i also believe that humanitarian aid must be provided without discrimination, whatever its basis.
in writing. ‒ the increase in conflicts around the world inevitably leads to the displacement of populations, which causes serious humanitarian problems. it is in this context that the humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul on 23 and 24 may. this report is intended to prepare the themes to be discussed on this occasion. it stresses the importance for member states to increase their funding for humanitarian aid and proposes to make the methods for delivering such aid more flexible. it also emphasises access to international humanitarian law anywhere in the world, regardless of the crisis, and calls for special attention to be given to children, women and people with disabilities. even though the report emphasises the importance of prevention rather than post-event management, a set of communitarian demands parasitize its interest. i have therefore chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ despite a rather promising approach to the new perspectives of humanitarian aid, with particular emphasis on prevention rather than on one-off management, which is often costly and does not help the empowerment of the affected countries, this relationship is in reality also perverted by gender theory and a globalist vision focused on the myth of the migrant.
in writing. ‒ this report on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit aims to prepare the main themes to be addressed at the world humanitarian summit in istanbul in may 2016. in the face of the unprecedented increase in the number of conflicts in the world, which has led to the displacement of a large number of people, this summit must establish a single, coordinated and more transparent international humanitarian structure. the report proposes, in particular, that member states should increase their funding for humanitarian aid, that more flexible methods should be introduced for delivering aid and that access to international humanitarian law should be guaranteed throughout the world. despite a rather promising approach, this report is actually polluted by claims that have no direct link to our subject, in particular through two opinions of the femm and afet committees (sex education, lgbt claims, migrants' rights). i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ in may, the world humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul, and a single international humanitarian structure, much more transparent than the previous one, should emerge from it. it is in this context that this report sets out the main themes to be addressed. the report calls for an increase in the contribution of the member states to humanitarian aid, with the sole aim of ensuring the protection of these populations, in particular children, women and the disabled, as millions of people are migrating worldwide as a result of the increase in the number of conflicts. despite an interesting approach to the new perspectives of humanitarian aid, this report includes claims that have no connection with the subject. the rapporteur also calls on the national authorities to increase funding for infrastructure to accommodate illegal migrants and to welcome as many as possible. that is why i abstained on this text.
in writing. ‒ the first world humanitarian summit will take place on 23 and 24 may 2016 in istanbul, turkey. it will be an opportunity to rethink humanitarian aid in the light of events in recent years which have had unprecedented humanitarian consequences. the number, scale and duration of current humanitarian crises have doubled the number of people in need since 2014. the number of people forcibly displaced has also increased considerably. humanitarian aid must therefore be restructured to make it more effective and to respond effectively to today's challenges. the european union must be a leader in this area. the humanitarian aid provided by the union to third countries is substantial. the commission must therefore ensure that this aid is managed properly. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes the european parliament's contribution to the world humanitarian summit to be held in istanbul on 23 and 24 may 2016. due to a proliferation of humanitarian crises around the world, the number of people in need has more than doubled since 2004, to 100 million people in 2015, with more than half of the world's refugees being children. the rapporteur calls for the final document of the humanitarian summit to include 'a five-year roadmap for the development and implementation of the concrete political commitments that have been made'. it also stresses the importance of strengthening the complementarity between humanitarian and development aid in order to address funding gaps. i have supported this report because i think it is balanced.
in writing. i supported this report presenting the eu's contributions to the world humanitarian summit to make humanitarian aid more open, effective and transparent. this report rightly emphasises the adoption and implementation of preventive measures and concrete operational guidelines in the management of humanitarian crises.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the guerrero salom report on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit. in this resolution, i call on the european union to put protection at the heart of its humanitarian action in order to meet the needs of every citizen. i also wanted to emphasise the central role of women in conflict and post-conflict situations, which is why it is essential to mainstream gender equality in humanitarian programming. finally, i welcome the establishment of a global alliance for humanitarian innovation which will improve existing programmes.
in writing. ‒ the main objective of this report was to prepare the main themes for the world humanitarian summit meeting in istanbul on 23 and 24 may. while the number of displaced people and conflicts is particularly worrying today in the light of the multiple wars that have resulted from the arab spring, the humanitarian world needs to find more effective and realistic ways to address the increasing needs for all types of aid around the world. the report is a step in the right direction, stressing the importance of providing funding that is commensurate with the challenges of the present day and of relying on local intermediaries. nevertheless, many ideological proposals have nothing to do with the concerns raised. thus, education in the relationship and sexual life is unfortunately put on the same level as the supply of water in a country at war. i therefore voted against this report which clearly does not identify the right priorities for humanitarian aid.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it contains too many "knights" unrelated to the original subject.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr enrique guerrero salom, on the challenges and prospects for humanitarian assistance in preparation for the world humanitarian summit. the resolution calls for a five-year roadmap to be included in the final document of the world humanitarian summit. it also stresses the complementarity of humanitarian aid with development aid, which must be strengthened. 250 million people are affected by humanitarian crises and the number of displaced people is at its highest level since the second world war, which explains the urgency of humanitarian issues today. this report has been adopted, and i welcome that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to make a clear contribution to the first world humanitarian summit in istanbul on 23-24 may 2016. the report also highlights the complementarity between humanitarian aid and development aid.
in writing. - i abstained on this report. it is true that he has the merit of seeking to develop humanitarian aid. and there are many people who need it. but it is polluted by a certain angelicism towards migrants, and by the desire to develop "public/private partnerships" which are sources of abuse and financial misappropriation.
in writing. ‒ despite a rather promising approach to the new perspectives of humanitarian aid, including an emphasis on prevention rather than costly one-off management that does not help empower the affected countries, this report is actually polluted by claims that have no direct link to our topic. the report included a specialised opinion on sexuality education and 'education for relationship life', as well as several lgbt claims. finally, although the summit must concern all the populations affected by a crisis, migrants and the desire to offer them special protection are predominant in the text. the text's main features include the call for the member states to increase their funding and to implement without delay the measures to be taken at the summit, including a 'comprehensive plan for the reception of refugees', as well as the call for the private sector to contribute to the financing of humanitarian aid. i abstained on this tricky report.
in writing. i abstained on this text. this report prepares the main texts to be discussed at the world humanitarian summit to be held on 23 and 24 march 2016 in istanbul. this summit is being held for the first time, following the recent conflicts and the large numbers of displaced people. the report calls on member states to increase their funding for humanitarian aid to ensure a high level of assistance for all people. this promising text opens up new perspectives on humanitarian aid, in particular by emphasising prevention rather than one-off management. but unfortunately it is polluted by claims that have no connection with the subject. so we end up with a text reoriented towards sex education and "education for relationship life", polluted by lgbt claims, and of course, directed to the great benefit of migrants.
in writing. ‒ this well-intentioned report supports un initiatives, particularly in the area of migrant assistance and reception. but it largely ignores the geopolitical causes of current humanitarian disasters, starting with the responsibility of eu governments in conflicts and displacement. he also ignores the eu's hypocritical game with turkey, the host of this summit. the eu is giving 3 billion to syria while turning a blind eye to the support of its government for jihadist groups that are destabilising syria and worsening the humanitarian crisis. and not a word about the serious violations of democratic rights in this country. the report calls for increased humanitarian aid on the ground, but does not condemn the repeated violations of international humanitarian law, such as the us bombing of msf hospitals in afghanistan. the report also advocates increasing privatisation of the global system for financing and deciding on humanitarian aid. i am not going to discourage humanitarian aid, but i refuse to endorse the growing hypocrisy in europe on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text on the challenges and prospects for humanitarian assistance in the run-up to the world humanitarian summit to be held in turkey in early 2016. the text recalls that the increased prevalence and intensity of natural disasters, the many conflicts and displacements associated with these disasters have led to an increased need for humanitarian aid worldwide. it called on the eu member states and other donors to increase their funding for local humanitarian aid actors, who have the capacity, skills and means to intervene on the ground.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit. the picture of the world's humanitarian situation is still as frightening. conflicts, crises, wars affect a whole section of mankind. while every situation is different, we can put in place effective action plans for people in times of war, but also by thinking about reconstruction and the aftermath of these conflicts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit. the number of people in need has more than doubled since 2004, and an estimated 250 million people are affected by humanitarian crises worldwide. we therefore call on the member states to support the world humanitarian summit, which should include a five-year roadmap with concrete political commitments. the european union, as the largest donor of humanitarian aid, should in particular commit itself to more flexible methods of delivering aid and to action to ensure better prevention of humanitarian crises. the summit should work towards the creation of a global humanitarian fund, linking humanitarian aid, development cooperation and resilience more systematically, working on disaster risk management and reduction, and using new technologies to improve aid effectiveness. finally, it is important that the financing of humanitarian aid from the union budget is predictable and available in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is the european parliament's contribution to the first world humanitarian summit, to be held in istanbul on 23 and 24 may 2016. we are currently facing humanitarian crises of unprecedented scale and number. in 2015, 250 million people were affected by humanitarian crises and nearly 60 million people were displaced, more than half of them children. these figures are alarming and have reached their highest level since the second world war. that is why i supported this resolution which calls for a five-year road map for the development and implementation of the concrete political commitments that have been agreed to be included in the final document of the summit. it is necessary to make development aid and humanitarian aid more complementary in order to make up for the lack of funding in the humanitarian field. finally, the report addresses the key challenges of humanitarian crises and provides innovative solutions such as vulnerability reduction, risk management and humanitarian effectiveness.
in writing. ‒ despite a rather promising approach to the new perspectives of humanitarian aid, with particular emphasis on prevention rather than on costly one-off management that does not help the empowerment of the affected countries, this report is in fact polluted by claims that have no direct link to our subject, in particular through two opinions of the femm and afet committees. the femm committee has therefore issued an opinion with a particular focus on sexuality education and 'education for relationship life'. lgbt claims also find a place in the report. finally, although the summit must concern all the populations affected by a crisis, migrants and the desire to offer them special protection are predominant in the text. the main feature of the text is the order to the member states to increase their funding and to implement without delay the measures to be taken at the summit, including a 'comprehensive plan for the reception of refugees'. the call for the private sector to contribute to the financing of humanitarian aid is also a key element of the report. i choose to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the first humanitarian summit to be held in istanbul on 23 and 24 may 2016 to "make humanitarian aid more effective and transparent". this is an emergency in the face of the unprecedented humanitarian crisis the world is facing. sixty million refugees and displaced people worldwide, according to unhcr, a record number. so, yes, we need to improve humanitarian assistance in refugee camps, paying special attention to vulnerable groups (lgbti, disabled, children). yes, we must increase direct aid to ngos on the ground and why not create a global fund for humanitarian aid with compulsory contributions. but this report is grossly lacking in political context and does not address the causes of humanitarian crises. worse, because states refuse to meet their financial commitments, he supports greater inclusion of private actors in humanitarian funding and aid, and even the development of public-private partnerships - in particular, "when the public and private sectors share values and priorities that align commercial objectives with the union's development objectives". it's a bunch of nonsense. i therefore abstained, focusing on the humanitarian emergency.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry. the text was intended to reflect on the development of the base metals sector; the industry in question is steel and aluminium production. the text provides a good analysis of the state of the industry and reaffirms its strategic importance for industrial policy, but it rejects protectionism and calls into question the dogma of competition policy, thus preventing the development of the tools essential for the protection, development and modernisation of this industry. in addition, the proposed amendments have contributed greatly to distorting the report, particularly in the provisions relating to border adjustment. finally, the question of the prohibition of long-term electricity supply contracts under competition policy is hardly touched upon in this report, although it is central and fundamental to the establishment of a real industrial policy in this sector.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of this report is the same as that of the national front for many years: environmental standards are becoming more and more restrictive, especially in the base metal industry, and are the main reason for the loss of competitiveness of european industry. the text proposes to develop an ecological adjustment at the borders, by obliging importers to buy co2 emission quotas on the market for polluting rights when introducing products from the steel industry or primary aluminium. let us not forget that the rapporteur, edouard martin, betrayed his colleagues at arcelormittal when he got the plan to dismantle the lorraine steelworks accepted. the national front believes that we must go further and resort to protectionism. the diagnosis is right, but it doesn't provide the right solutions, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i gave my full support to the report by edouard martin on the development of the conditions necessary for the maintenance and development of the base metal industry. it sets out a number of concrete solutions, including the introduction of a co2 adjustment at europe's borders to prevent unfair competition, the development of the circular economy or the introduction of new forms of corporate governance.
in writing. ‒ the report which was originally presented in the itre committee was in the right direction and edouard martin had timidly sketched out protectionist measures based on some very correct findings. the report, after the vote in committee, is nothing but a catalogue of good feelings, with a few good half measures alternating with some very bad ones. that's why i finally decided to abstain.
in writing. - this report is presented by the socialist member of parliament edouard martin, who was elected quietly after having betrayed his comrades in the "struggle" at arcelormittal, whom he made accept the plan to dismantle our lorraine steelworks. this document is in fact a progress report on the reflection of the reflection group on the development of the base metals sector. the text provides a good diagnosis of the state of the sector and reaffirms its strategic importance for industrial policy. the angle taken to safeguard and develop this industry is the ecological adjustment at the borders, by obliging importers to buy co2 emission allowances on the market for polluting rights when introducing products from the steel industry or primary aluminium. the report does not go beyond protectionism for such a strategic industry and it would have been easier to introduce an import levy rather than this complex system. the report also makes no mention of the flight of decision-making centres out of the european union and the weight of industries in emerging countries. i therefore abstained on this report which has become a catalogue of good feelings without proposals.
in writing. ‒ while the report's assessment of the state of the steel industry and aluminium production seems to us to be correct, particularly when it emphasises their strategic nature, the flight of decision-making centres out of europe and the impact of environmental constraints on the productivity of european companies, the same cannot be said for the proposed solutions, which are very complex and essentially consist of obliging importers to buy co2 emissions on the market for polluting rights. the introduction of an import levy based on an entry price mechanism and the reversal of the prohibition on long-term electricity supply contracts, which is a consequence of competition policy, would be sufficient to restore productivity in this sector. however, some amendments counterbalance the protections provided for in this report and lead me to abstain on this text.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out the lines of thinking to contribute to the development of the steel industry and aluminium production. the rapporteur makes a good assessment of the state of the sector and reaffirms that the development of this sector is strategic for the member states of the union, mainly in terms of jobs. he admits that the environmental standards imposed by the commission are the cause of the loss of competitiveness of this industry. the commission is proposing to oblige importers to buy emission allowances on the market for polluting rights in order to combat environmental dumping by emerging countries. even if this proposal is positive, it does not make it possible to stop our loss of competitiveness completely and will contribute to increasing the volatility of these emission allowances to the benefit of speculators. the report is generally in the right direction but remains unambitious. only intelligent protectionism can help to combat unfair international competition effectively. the amendments by the epp and the ecr group have also largely emptied the report of the main measures of interest, particularly in terms of provisions relating to border adjustment. i therefore abstained on that text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by edouard martin on a sustainable european base metal industry. the report proposes concrete measures to safeguard the competitiveness of the steel industry and the union's steel industry, but also to combat climate change. the aim of this text is to introduce an adjustment of the carbon emission quotas at the frontiers, in order to prevent unfair competition from the union's trading partners subject to standards that are much more flexible than ours. the measures advocated by edouard martin are, in my view, designed to provide better protection for european industrial production. they must enable the union to impose its social, fiscal and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report proposes measures to support the metal industry, which is extremely vulnerable to international competition and to european climate and energy policies. the report's objective, in line with the epp group's priorities, is to re-industrialise europe by increasing investment and promoting a level playing field with the rest of the world. the report proposes the introduction of a carbon border adjustment scheme, the aim of which is to impose a carbon tax on goods entering the european union that are subject to less ambitious environmental quality criteria. it also refers to the revision of the emissions trading system (ets). i have supported this report because i believe that the metal industry remains a strategic sector for the european union.
in writing. i supported this report, which aims to ensure the competitiveness of the base metals industry, in particular through a review of the emissions trading system. this report is noteworthy because the base metal industry is of particular importance in europe for a whole series of sectors such as automotive, aeronautics and construction.
in writing. ‒ since 2008, the european steel industry has been hit by a serious crisis, due to strong competition from products from third countries such as china. european producers, who, unlike their international competitors, are obliged to comply with high-level environmental and energy obligations, are struggling to remain competitive in the face of chinese steel sold at very low cost. to protect this sector and its jobs, it is therefore essential to invest and develop sustainable european regulation for raw materials and base metals. in particular, a carbon taxation system at the eu's borders should be introduced to oblige foreign importers to declare the carbon content of their metals and to purchase emission allowances in order to sell on the community market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which aims to contribute to the reindustrialisation of europe and to promote fair conditions of competition at international level. we therefore call on the european union to take account of the vulnerability of the metal industry to dumping by third countries, in particular china, and to develop an effective framework to restore the economic potential of the sector. to do this, we advocate the introduction of a carbon border adjustment (cca) and the future reform of the emissions trading system (ets) to protect the competitiveness of european industries. finally, by voting in favour of this report, i am advocating a reduction and harmonisation of prices in europe through better integration of the internal market while investing in research and development so that europe can remain a centre of excellence in the production of base metals.
in writing. ‒ this is an important report on the base metals industry which denounces the scandal of industrial wastelands in europe, with factories abandoned while they could still produce and recommends efficient pathways for change including co2 adjustment at europe's borders to prevent unfair competition from those who produce in territories with less stringent standards than ours, but sell in europe. today we must think about a new european interpretation of competition law which takes greater account of european industrial interests in a context of intensified global competition, particularly with china, which is advancing in disguise, presenting itself as a market economy, while this continent-country protects its internal market and conditions its access.
in writing. ‒ this report on the development of the base metals sector, particularly aluminium, has some good aspects, although it does not go far enough and thus loses its usefulness. the text makes a relevant diagnosis of the disastrous industrial policy that europe has suffered (in particular by mentioning the far too restrictive environmental standards). the need for a global agreement on co2 emissions, which would harmonise scattered and ineffective texts, was also mentioned. however, at no point does the report mention the trade protection measures which are essential to revive the european steel industry. i refused to let the decision-making centres in the metal industry escape from europe, and from the framework of a realistic national trade policy, but i did not vote in favour of the idea that europe must be re-industrialized.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it does not sufficiently protect the industry of european countries.
in writing. ‒ there was a specific european coal and steel community. the last british mine is closing this week and the european union as a whole produces only 42% of the steel it consumes. of course there is the crisis. but the problem is deeper: for decades all european policies have been contributing to the deindustrialisation of the european union in general and of france in particular. we cannot want free trade everywhere and not have the instruments of trade defence that are worth the name. we cannot at the same time denounce china's systematic dumping but negotiate its market economy status at the wto. we cannot swear by the sacred and holy of free and unfettered competition, but we can plead for a voluntarist industrial policy. to demand long-term energy supply contracts in a fully liberalised market. we talk about competitiveness and impose the most severe climate policy constraints on our own companies. to dream of industrial recovery and promote austerity policies. all of this is antinomica. mr. martin hasn't quite forgotten his past as a steel worker. his report contains some interesting things. but when he became an mep, mr martin adopted the tenets of the european union. and that is the reason why these proposals are doomed to failure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the situation is critical for the base metal industry and particularly for the steel industry. in addition, the price of energy in europe is extremely high compared with other producing regions. our producers pay twice as much as their american counterparts! it is therefore urgent to combat dumping, particularly from china, by making full use of trade defence instruments to discourage unfair behaviour. a long-term carbon adjustment mechanism at the border is in itself a good idea, but we must be careful that it does not become a huge burden on our industries because such a mechanism would automatically raise the price of imported raw materials. let us therefore keep on the watch! i also think it is essential to intensify discussions with our steel partners such as china, russia, india, belarus and turkey in order to find solutions. we need a strong and sustainable industrial base. those who predicted a service corporation were wrong! industry rightly remains a sector with future prospects. so we need to upgrade our factories, keep our jobs and unleash our capacity for innovation!
in writing. steel production is a fundamental element for the survival of our european industries. that is why i have given my full support to the report by my colleague, mr edouard martin, which proposes several solutions to the risks of relocating metal production. among its proposals, it calls on the european commission and the member states to consider a new european interpretation of competition law that takes better account of intensified global competition. it also proposes to favour new forms of corporate governance through public participation or structuring that encourages reinvestment in the means of production rather than the payment of dividends. the commission is proposing to introduce a co2 adjustment at the borders of europe to prevent unfair competition from those who produce in territories with less stringent standards than ours, but sell in europe, while at the same time fighting climate change. the point is that europe can and must act to defend its businesses, its employees, its know-how, its social and environmental standards. the european union must impose its social, fiscal and environmental standards if it is not to be reduced to being a single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr édouard martin, on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry. this report deals with the challenges of reindustrialising europe and fair competition conditions at international level. the basic metals industry is affected by dumping from third countries and would need a framework to strengthen its economic potential. to this end, harmonisation of energy prices and increased investment in research and development would be beneficial. i welcome the fact that this report was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to support the base metal industry, which is vulnerable to external competition. it is in line with the desire to re-industrialize europe through investment and the promotion of a level playing field at international level.
in writing. the report by mr martin (s&d, france) was drawn up after the betrayal of his colleagues at arcelormittal, whom he had persuaded to accept the mittal-hollande plan to dismantle the lorraine steelworks. this document is a progress report on the reflection of the reflection group on the development of the base metals sector. the industry in question is the steel and aluminium industries. the positive points of the text are the following: a good diagnosis of the state of the sector, strategic; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. as regards the negative points of the document, the report does not go beyond protectionism for such a strategic industry. moreover, the issue of the prohibition of long-term electricity supply contracts under competition policy is hardly touched upon in this report, whereas it is central and structural for the establishment of a real industrial policy in this sector. we are voting for abstention because the measures recommended in the report are too weak to allow the re-establishment of a metal industry.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. he certainly has a lot of good feelings about saving the european steel industry. but he refuses to take the protectionist route which would be the logical solution to the problems of competitiveness which he notes. it should be noted that this report was written by edouard martin, a former mittal trade unionist who betrayed his comrades to be elected as a ps mep.
in writing. i abstained on that vote. this text was initially positive: it shows that the managers are really aware of the need to preserve this industry, since it is well known that if heavy industry relocates, the processing industry follows. unfortunately, this report refuses to call for protectionism, which would benefit this type of sensitive industry. the text also avoids the question of the flight of decision-making centres out of europe (canada, australia, etc.) for certain types of industry. finally, no mention is made of long-term electricity supply contracts, which are a central point in the structure of industrial policy.
in writing. ‒ the production and processing of base metals is the driving force behind the industrialisation of a territory. however, europe has lost more than 40 million tonnes of steel production capacity since 2008, representing 160 000 direct and indirect jobs. year after year, additional factors are added to the complex equation of maintaining these industries in our territory. i therefore enthusiastically support the many innovative proposals contained in the report by my colleague, mr edouard martin, for which i voted. its irreplaceable experience in this industry has enabled it to come up with shared and effective recommendations: a 'carbon adjustment' at the union's borders for metals that have not been produced with the same respect for the environment as in europe; long-term electricity contracts for industrialists to smooth the cost of this major input; the development of the circular economy of scrap metal; and above all, the encouragement of new forms of governance that encourage reinvestment in the productive tool, such as public participation. finally, i welcome his clear opposition to the granting of market economy status to china, which would represent a real threat to our industries and jobs.
in writing. ‒ this report, written by a social democrat and former steel unionist, explains the difficulties of the european base metal industry through the 'higher taxation, levies and costs linked to the energy networks'. this is a bad start. the report also condemns competition and dumping by third countries, but stresses the importance of avoiding protectionist measures. the solutions advocated in the report are based on the 'system of allocation of emission allowances', i.e. the carbon market. i do not think that the market can provide any solution. the report even envisages allowing the steel industry "to benefit from totally free allowances in sectors which are at risk of losing their international competitiveness because of high carbon costs". that is, the right to pollute for free! i am voting against this unjust text which ignores the interests of european workers and which is clearly contrary to the environmental objectives set out by the european union at cop21. the text is so odious that its author will probably withdraw his signature.
in writing. ‒ this text is positive because it is a sign of the european political class's awareness of the absolute need to preserve the base metals industry, because when heavy industry relocates, the processing industry generally follows. the rejection of protectionism and the challenge to the dogma of competition policy prevents the author from using the tools essential to the protection, development and modernisation of this industry. in addition, the epp and ecr amendments in the itre committee have largely distorted the protection imperfect originally proposed by the rapporteur in the provisions on border adjustment. that is why i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry, the main objectives of which are to contribute to the reindustrialisation of europe and the restoration of fair conditions of competition at international level. it called on the eu to take account of the steel industry's vulnerability to dumping by third countries, notably china, and to develop an effective framework to restore the economic potential of the sector. the measures include reducing and harmonising energy prices in europe through better integration of the internal market, modernising trade defence instruments against unfair practices and dumping, banning distortive practices on raw materials in regional, bilateral and multilateral free trade agreements, and investing in research and development so that europe can remain a centre of excellence in the production of base metals. i have in particular approved the maintenance of the system of state compensation for indirect costs in the sector of energy-intensive industries and its harmonisation at european level, with the aim of ensuring fair conditions of competition with third countries and between european producers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by my colleague edouard martin because i support the development of a strong and sustainable european base metals industry, in particular through the implementation of innovative strategies such as a co2 adjustment at europe's borders to prevent unfair competition from those who produce in territories with less stringent standards than ours, but sell in europe; also to combat climate change.
in writing. ‒ this text is positive because it is a sign of the european political class's awareness of the absolute need to preserve the base metals industry, because when heavy industry relocates, the processing industry generally follows. the rejection of protectionism and the challenge to the dogma of competition policy prevents the author from using the tools essential to the protection, development and modernisation of this industry. in addition, the epp and ecr amendments in the itre committee have largely distorted the protection imperfect originally proposed by the rapporteur in the provisions on border adjustment. that is why i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which considers ways of contributing to the reindustrialisation of europe and promoting fair conditions of competition at international level. china is plunging whole sections of our economy into an even deeper crisis. the steel industry, for example, is facing the most serious crisis in its peacetime history. i ask the question: are we still in a time of peace in the commercial field? the security of our jobs and our know-how are at stake because china alone produces more steel than the world demands! i'm fighting to improve our trade defence instruments. assuming that there are people fighting us, we'll know better how to defend ourselves. what i regret, however, is that the rapporteur, having enjoyed his 15 minutes of fame, has used this report to win back the favour of his fellow trade unionists in front of cameras that are certainly moved by this reunion. i wish the cameras had come sooner to the front line of this sector which urgently needs economic and political support.
in writing. ‒ since 2008, the european base metals sector has been suffering the full effects of the economic crisis with contraction in demand on the one hand, but also unfair competition from the rest of the world on the other. a social and fiscal environment in the member states that is not adapted to globalisation has led to the loss of more than 60 000 direct jobs and 100 000 indirect jobs for our industries. the report aims to support and restore the european union's competitiveness and to protect it against unfair competition in this sector. in order to remedy the distortion of competition caused by unilateral application of the ets, the report proposes the implementation of carbon-adjustment measures at the eu's borders, to avoid the union's legitimate environmental ambitions becoming a burden for our industry. the report also suggests that revenue from carbon auctions could be used to fund environmental schemes such as the green fund, under the polluter-pays principle. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which stresses the need to support the base metals industry. the industry is particularly vulnerable to international competition and many industries producing base metals have lost competitiveness (such as steel, aluminium and non-ferrous metals). it is therefore necessary and urgent to ensure that europe is reindustrialised through investment and to promote conditions of competition in this sector which are adapted to the international level. i also voted in favour of the implementation of a carbon border adjustment and the reform of the emissions trading system but it is important to ensure that these measures are not too burdensome for our companies and industries and that we can defend ourselves against any form of dumping. finally, i would like to stress that this report recalls the need to modernise our trade defence instruments to protect our companies and to be able to combat all forms of unfair competition and dumping. base metals suffer too often.
in writing. ‒ the martin report aims to save the european steel industry in the best possible ecological conditions. we need industry in europe, we need to stop being the idiots of globalisation, and take back control of our industrial policy to stop the bleeding of relocations. this text marks a real change of direction for the european union in replacing blind free trade with fair trade. we are calling for a border adjustment to penalize products manufactured without respect for the environment and for a strengthening of our trade defence mechanisms. the text calls for a change in the interpretation of the competition code to take account of the dumping by certain emerging countries, in particular china, to which we must deny the status of a market economy. marked to the left and concerned about the sustainability of our production, the report drawn up by my colleague édouard martin also proposes to fully include employees in decision-making and to develop the circular economy of heavy metals. parliament has taken a strong stand, and it is up to the commission to come back quickly with a credible legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ this text is positive because it is a sign of the european political class' awareness of the absolute need to preserve this industry, because when heavy industry relocates, the processing industry generally follows. the rejection of protectionism and the challenge to the dogma of competition policy prevents the author from using the tools essential to the protection, development and modernisation of this industry. so i choose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report focuses on the european base metals industry, which is experiencing serious difficulties due to competition between industrial groups and, above all, the collapse in world demand. multinational companies in the sector have taken advantage of this increased competition to relocate production to countries with low social and environmental standards. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the context of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. this report calls for an ambitious industrial policy. it proposes, in particular, the creation of local information and consultation committees for the prevention of industrial risks involving employees. it called on the commission to systematically include the prohibition of distortive practices in trade agreements on raw materials. despite some ambiguities on the issue of carbon markets, i voted in favour of this report which was widely discussed with the trade union organisations in the sectors concerned, although i have no illusions about its significance other than symbolic.
in writing. ‒ unsurprisingly, the joint motion for a resolution put forward by the left-wing groups is unacceptable. it is a concentration of the european institutions' capacity to cause harm to the european peoples. in this text, hungary, a free and sovereign state, is scandalously attacked on the pretext of human rights. the hungarian government, which enjoys a high level of popular support, is accused of endangering the rule of law. on the contrary, we think, together with my colleagues in the national front, that it is the european oligarchy which, through its immigration policies, is seriously endangering the rule of law. for cultural, economic, political and religious reasons, the mass immigration that the peoples of europe are forced to accept is a clear factor of serious tensions. this resolution is a direct attack on a state which defends not only its national interests but also those of the peoples of europe. everything is covered: lgbti rights that would be horribly violated, border protection that would be excessive, etc. the text also criticises the hungarian government for holding a public consultation on immigration and the link it has made between immigration and insecurity. i voted against this proposal, of course!
in writing. ‒ the resolution that is least outrageously hostile to hungary is the one tabled by the epp. however, this proposal recognises the right of unelected bureaucrats in the european commission to rule on the legitimacy of the government freely chosen by the hungarian people. for the rest, mr orbán is accused of being the first official of a member state of the european union who made the right diagnosis and took the appropriate measures to protect his people from the deep identity crisis that the old continent is going through...
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution on hungary is yet another vicious attack on a state that defends its national interest. this text is reduced to indigestible soup because it is so exhaustive. he gets to mix lgbt rights and border protection. the commission has also been criticized for not having taken the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the information they need. i am opposed to this text which interferes with hungarian politics and gives directives to a democratically and massively elected and re-elected president and government.
in writing. ‒ this resolution responds to the attitude of the hungarian government towards migrants and to the statements by prime minister orbán aimed at triggering a debate on the possible reintroduction of the death penalty in hungary, which is considered incompatible with european principles and values. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i think that this report is balanced and i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the left-wing groups consider that the european commission has not reacted appropriately in relation to hungary. in reality, this resolution has a double objective: to bring down the government of viktor orbán and to get the european commission to meet their demands. that is why i voted against it. the commission has repeatedly reaffirmed its determination to use all existing instruments to defend european values and to ensure respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. the epp therefore put to the vote an alternative resolution which was rejected. we called for vigilance on the situation in hungary, while underlining the assurance given by the commission to parliament that it will continue to monitor the situation in hungary and other member states, including the functioning of the national mechanisms for the protection of the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ this is not the first time that parliament has had the opportunity to adopt a resolution on the situation in hungary. for years we have been issuing warnings and making recommendations, but nothing has been done: the hungarian prime minister continues to provoke and the commission's response to date has been lukewarm and inadequate. however, i believe that it is time to take strong action both symbolically and concretely, including by calling for the activation of article 7 (1) of the eu treaty and a closer monitoring of the use of european funding in hungary. i therefore supported this resolution, but i am very sorry that some members, mostly conservatives, opposed the paragraphs on the activation of article 7 of the treaty and the reference to the recently registered citizens' initiative. the case of orbán and the threats elsewhere in europe demonstrate the urgent need for the european union to have a comprehensive mechanism to ensure respect for democracy. as it does on budgetary matters, europe must carry out an impartial annual assessment of the situation of fundamental rights, with common and objective indicators.
in writing. ‒ we may have questions about certain decisions of hungarian domestic policy. however, i dare believe that the hungarian people are sufficiently enlightened and their institutions sufficiently wise to take appropriate action if they see a drift of political power. the european commission has been asked to conduct an analysis of the respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary. the commission has repeatedly responded to parliament's requests, both in writing and orally, and has reiterated its readiness to use all the instruments at its disposal to ensure that european law and values are respected. in addition, an infringement procedure has been opened in respect of hungarian asylum legislation. despite these detailed responses, left-wing groups continue to call for sanctions, casting doubt on the lucidity of the hungarian people and the vigilance of their national assembly. i have therefore decided to reject this excessive resolution in its content, but i do not forget that it is up to everyone to exercise all the vigilance necessary to ensure respect for democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution of the left parties on the situation in hungary, which is implicitly aimed at bringing down the government of viktor orbán, by pointing to the inaction of the commission and the council. the european commission has already reaffirmed on several occasions its determination to use all existing instruments to defend european values and ensure respect for the rule of law. the commission also carried out an analysis which concluded that the conditions for the activation of the rule of law framework in respect of hungary were not met. i have, however, supported the balanced text put forward by the epp.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution of the left groups on the situation in hungary, and against the one of the epp. neither of these resolutions respects hungary's national sovereignty. the hungarian opposition is using the european parliament to settle accounts with the government of mr orbán. but this one was democratically elected. the democratic choice of the hungarian electorate must be respected. the european union cannot interfere in the internal affairs of hungary or any other member state. the european parliament must therefore stop producing these resolutions which are absolutely useless.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the european union is once again taking a hard line against the nationalist regime of viktor orbán. this is a regime that is supported by two thirds of hungarians! but the union has never understood the meaning of the word 'democracy'.
in writing. ‒ in the face of repeated violations of the rule of law and fundamental freedoms in mr orban's hungary (suffering of independent media and opposition, use of warlike methods against asylum seekers and threats to reinstate the death penalty), the european parliament had the opportunity to send a strong response. the text we have voted on sends positive signals. he also called for better control of eu funds which are currently used only to fatten the orban dynasty. in general, however, the text seems like a real missed opportunity. all the very symbolic requests for recourse to 'article 7', which would allow the commission to initiate a procedure which could lead to the provisional exclusion of a member state guilty of breaching european values, were rejected. however, it was necessary to act quickly and forcefully to remind everyone - and in particular the new polish government - that the european union is not just a large soft market, but a community of values. while it is the duty of the socialists to be at the forefront of this issue, i regret the attitude of the european conservatives who have done everything possible to cover up the actions of fidesz, the ruling party in hungary and a member of the epp (european right).
in writing. ‒ the hungarian hard right government is not at its first wrongdoing in terms of non-respect of fundamental rights. the european parliament has since 2011 called for the charter of fundamental rights to be respected and thus for article 7 of the treaties to be activated, which provides for the possible suspension of the voting rights of a government that violates democracy. but this article is a deception. the complexity of the universe is evidence of this. and the european commission has so far complied with an injunction to respect the european economic order. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon. this situation underlines how much the european union is built solely on respect for neoliberal orthodoxy. the commission is now looking at the more than obscure public procurement in hungary, while at the same time the hungarian leader is calling for the reintroduction of the death penalty. i support this report to see if the commission can do more than talk about it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution by the s&d, alde, greens and gue groups on the situation in hungary. i am in fact opposed to this text which calls for the european commission to initiate a thorough monitoring process of all policies and measures taken in hungary. the european commission reaffirmed its determination to use all existing instruments to defend european values and ensure respect for the rule of law, but considers that the conditions for activating the hungarian monitoring mechanism are not met.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. with this resolution we wanted to sound the alarm once again: all of europe is concerned. because what is happening in hungary threatens to happen in other member states, our response must be firm. to reach the millionth signature, we call on europeans to sign this citizens' initiative registered on 30 november, which calls on the european commission to use all the means at its disposal to ensure that european values are respected everywhere.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the epp resolution and not for the joint resolution because it has a double objective: to bring down the government of viktor orban and to get the commission to apply article 7 of the eu treaty. however, despite the commission's analysis concluding that the conditions for activating the rule of law framework in relation to hungary were not met, the left groups believe that the commission did not react appropriately. i also reject the accusations that the epp group is complacent towards hungary. we support the justified criticisms of hungary's respect for certain rights, but on the question of migrants i see that other states have applied hungary's methods in the face of threats to their own stability! it is by the quality of the acts and their success that we must judge. so far, only hungary has managed to stem the flow of migrants. we should support hungary in a constructive way by closely monitoring the application of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ for years we have witnessed a serious deterioration in the rule of law and fundamental rights in hungary. the government of viktor orbán is increasing its provocations and its attacks on democracy. refugees, stigmatised and treated as criminals, have a very limited access to international protection. the independence of the judiciary and the media is under threat. the specter of the death penalty is reappearing dangerously. racism, anti-semitism and xenophobia are on the rise. this worrying situation is a real test of the union's ability to react firmly when one of its member states acts in flagrant contradiction to its values. if we remain passive and inactive, similar phenomena could spread like wildfire to other european states. the aim of this resolution was to call on the european institutions to take strong action in the face of what is happening in hungary. i very much regret that, because of the european right, the text voted does not call for the activation of article 7 of the treaty, which could lead to the suspension of certain of the rights of a member state, and does not support the european citizens' initiative on the same demand.
in writing. ‒ since the accession to power of prime minister viktor orban, hungary has adopted authoritarian measures, as evidenced by the adoption of laws restricting fundamental rights and individual freedoms, especially in relation to minorities and foreigners. hungary has restricted freedom of religion and expression. these measures are contrary to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which has led to a letter of formal notice from the european commission. the european union is a community of law, and breaches of the treaties must be punished. that is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which seeks to encourage the european commission and the european council to take full account of the recent deviations in that country. democracy and the rule of law must therefore be safeguarded by taking appropriate measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in hungary. the situation in that country is extremely worrying. the legislative measures adopted on refugees, migrants and asylum seekers are unfortunately only the latest step in a long series of measures taken by the hungarian government over the past few years. we have already warned about this in our resolution of 10 june. the commission, the council and the european council must assume their responsibilities. the council and the european council must hold a debate and adopt firm conclusions on the situation in hungary. the commission should activate the first phase of the eu framework for strengthening the rule of law and immediately launch a process of in-depth monitoring of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the commission shall assess the emergence of a systemic threat in hungary which could give rise to a clear risk of a serious breach within the meaning of article 7 of the eu treaty. the infringement procedure concerning the asylum acquis is not sufficient. a fire is not extinguished by a glass of water, especially when it threatens to spread.
in writing. ‒ with the situation in hungary deteriorating since the election of victor orbán in 2010, the european parliament adopted a resolution in june 2015 calling on the european commission to conduct a thorough investigation into the government's misconduct. despite the blatant attacks on opposition rights and press freedom, the violation of the independence of the judiciary, state xenophobia, corruption and arbitrary detentions, the juncker commission seems paralysed. against this inertia, we urge the commission to act. the socialists advocated activating article 7 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which allows for harsh sanctions to be imposed on a country which violates the union's fundamental texts, as the government of victor orbán is doing, and welcomed the launch of a european citizens' initiative to this end. however, we lost by about ten votes because the epp group, which includes viktor orbán's fidesz party and the french "republicans", mobilized to prevent the vote in favour of article 7. for them, once again, human rights and the future of europe come before their immediate self-interest.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this new resolution on the situation in hungary, tabled by the gue/ngl, greens/efa, s&s and alde groups (327 for, 293 against and 67 abstentions). i regret, however, that the libe committee was rejected by a very small majority, as it did not have the opportunity to draw up a new report on the possible sanctions for those who violate the union's fundamental rights. the resolution calls on the commission to carry out an assessment of the situation of fundamental rights in hungary, as it did in june 2015, and criticises the commission for limiting itself to technical procedures that are often ineffective. the violations and abuses committed by the hungarian government over the years are an illustration of the deterioration of fundamental rights in hungary, as in many other countries of the union. the union's ability to respond to threats to the rule of law and fundamental rights in the union is more than a symbol of the union's viability. the commission and the member states, through the council, and the majority political parties should be aware of this and turn their words into action.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i largely agree with this report, particularly its holistic approach. i welcome the importance attached to coherence between internal and external policies, which i believe is fundamental if we are to continue to defend the universality and indivisibility of human rights. the speeches still need to be put into practice, particularly by the member states. we must also avoid a relativism which has been denounced elsewhere and refrain from giving preference to trade, including arms, over the universal values of the declaration of the same name. ideological data are not necessarily where we think they are. i am surprised that our rapporteur has tabled an amendment to distort recital u of the report. yes, the world economy is in a serious crisis which has a serious impact on economic and social rights here and elsewhere. the crisis is not over and economic and social rights are being violated. i also regret the obsession of this european parliament with a number of countries, albeit less pronounced than in the past. i recognize the human rights violations in those countries, but i think of all those who are forgotten and whose situation is often even worse. i am thinking of the horn of africa, and particularly sudan and eritrea. i am thinking of turkey and egypt, where the situation is getting worse, but also of the gulf countries, on the day when we have just awarded the sakharov prize to raïf badawi. i also wonder what the reference to eunavfor med is, which we know will not solve much and which puts new risks on the migrants. that is why, mr president, the gue/ngl group will abstain on this report.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, european civilization is the origin of the declaration of human rights, and this is one of the titles of which we can be proud. but to protect human rights effectively, we must also be able to identify real priorities, which the european union does not have. its 2014 report on human rights in the world contains four false priorities, presented in point 4 as the union's major internal challenges, namely: the situation of the roma, the treatment of migrants, discrimination against lgbti people and racism. the union is thus once again giving in to its immigration whims and to the lgbti lobby. i think the real priorities are elsewhere. first of all, the fight against islamist terrorism. not to say that would be to disrespect the memory of the 130 victims of the paris attacks. the second is the fight against extreme poverty. the economic crisis has led to an increase in the number of homeless people in europe. in france alone, there are more than 30,000 homeless children, but who cares? the 2014 report also states that the union places human rights at the centre of its international relations. but why is it then making pacts with states like turkey or qatar, whose attitude is ambiguous towards the islamic state group? in reality, the union is exploiting human rights for two reasons: first, to give itself a semblance of respectability and to try to make people forget that it is above all at the service of banks and international lobbies; second, to make it appear that it is not a party to the treaty of rome, but that it is a party to the treaty of rome. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to promote the fight against organised crime. but the people of europe are beginning to see the deception. the union's deadly supranationalism will not pass.
mr president, after the tarabella, ferrara, panzeri, noichl and rodrigues reports, here is another report with the misleading title: human rights and democracy in the world. after all, who could oppose freedom of speech, thought, conscience and religion? no one, of course. the same freedom should already be able to be expressed in the nations of the european union, starting with my country, france, where the electoral campaign we have just experienced was far from a model of republican democracy. so now you want to give lessons in democracy to other countries, all over the world, for example, to russia, through your report. you blame it for the suffering of the ukrainian people when the policy of the european union is largely responsible for it: you have fuelled the ukrainian conflict instead of calming it. similarly, your ideology that destroys nations, but also the family, urges you, once again, to emphasize the lgbti, roma minorities and, of course, the alleged benefits of your immigration policy. but what do you do with all these forgotten people of globalization, all these invisible people, the victims of mass immigration, the threat of islamic fundamentalism, our strain-filled borders, children confused by your gender ideology, who now need to be explained that a family is a father and a father or a mother and a mother? our fellow citizens are not looking for universal, global compassion. no, they need us to put them first, they need a job, they need a family balance. they are not looking for minorities stacked on top of each other, resulting in a deadly communitarianism. no, they need nations that are united and protected. and that is our first concern.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first violation of human rights is to have to leave one's country, one's roots, because of war, because of dictatorial regimes, but also because of climate change. in 2014 - and the preda report addresses this in paragraph 72 - 17.5 million people were displaced as a result of disasters caused by climate hazards. these displacements are mainly in the southern regions, which are most exposed to the impacts of climate change; 85% of these are in developing countries. i have two proposals, commissioner. firstly, to oblige the member states of the union to finance development aid at the level of 0.7% of gdp, as they have promised. secondly, we must lead by example by including climate change measures in all our international development agreements to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. this is our fight of the century if we don't want to have 200 million climate refugees in the world tomorrow.
mr president, how is it possible that in the 21st century we still have to explain and remind the european states, the cradles of democracy, that it is unacceptable to detain children - children fleeing war, fleeing atrocities that none of us has ever known? i think that's unacceptable. the right to liberty, the right to protection from arbitrary detention are fundamental human rights enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, and they apply to every human being, without exception. but we are seeing more and more - and this was mentioned earlier - refugees being detained. there are reports of violence, brutality, secret detention, and i would like, as do some of my colleagues, to be told how the president of the council, mr tusk, who is basically speaking for us and represents us all, could, just a few days ago, say that refugees should be detained for up to 18 months upon their arrival in europe. to avoid violating our values and to ensure that we respect the fundamental rights we have been raising at length, we must organise ourselves together through effective border control, through a sharing of responsibility - this is a necessity - and ensure that dignity is guaranteed for everyone, in the european space and beyond.
mr president, commissioner, the plight of refugees no longer seems to affect anyone. the council president is making his dangerous and safe statements, as if to better match the populist rhetoric that we hear all too often in europe. i do not know what shocks me more: that mr tusk is talking about the possibility of detaining migrants for 18 months for security reasons or that the greens' request for an explanation of his remarks in plenary has been rejected by other political groups. go around, there's nothing to see, nothing to complain about. so, when it comes to migrants, anything can be said, anything can be proposed, anything can be done. in europe, walls are being built one by one, but the dikes have completely collapsed. that is the irresponsible message being sent to the citizens of europe. no more international law, humanitarian law or solidarity! now we're talking about borders, security, and war. migration is being criminalized even more, even though it is a human right recognized by international law. this is europe in 2015! i say to you today: we must go beyond wishes and good resolutions to put europe back on the right track.
mr president, ten days after the attacks of 13 november, two committees of the european parliament dared to vote, by means of an accelerated procedure, on a text which is intended to make it easier for illegal immigrants to lodge complaints. the commission is announcing that more than three million new illegal immigrants will arrive by 2017, and on 2 december the right and left in this house adopted this resolution which encourages illegal immigration. the aim of the legislation is to prevent border guards from doing their job by encouraging illegal immigrants to report them. worse, the heavily subsidized ngos that have made the systematic defense of foreigners their business will be able to launch legal proceedings on behalf of these immigrants who have entered our countries illegally. while your priority should be to guarantee the security and prosperity of the europeans who elected you, you have increasingly favoured the illegal immigrants over the citizens, others over ours. to irresponsibility you have added indecency, inviting us to drink champagne to celebrate the adoption of this disastrous resolution. but while you're blowing your bubbles, our countrymen are drinking. sooner or later, you're gonna have to answer for it!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dayton agreements were a success in a way, even if they were supported by the serbian president, milošević, who was subsequently blamed for all the ills. they are also the consequence of the disintegration of yugoslavia, which was partly the will of germany, the americans and turkey. pandora's box was opened on the basis of ethnic and religious conflicts. let us not call into question this compromise which has maintained peace for the past 20 years. the serbian people, among others, want to have their say on a local referendum on judicial matters. let's not deny him that right. we must stop humiliating the serbian people if we want peace.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the epo's decision to liberalize patents and the rights of seed breeders is a very bad thing. it's like giving a free pass to multinational corporations like syngenta, monsanto, etc., by allowing them to actually take control of our food. it's something very serious, in my opinion. this is a danger to our food sovereignty because this epo policy will encourage market concentration, increase farmers' dependence on a few multinationals - as you know - and will inevitably have consequences for consumers. and we'll have less control over manufacturing, which will be increasingly standardized. the project will enable industrial groups to organise the control of all seeds, including those that farmers collect directly from their harvest. in addition, this new constraint will restrict market access for local traditional and organic seeds. in france and europe, the seed sector is made up of many smes and cooperatives. at the global level, on the other hand, ten companies share 60% of the market. this concentration, together with the problems of intellectual property, will be detrimental to the maintenance of diversified agriculture. the seed industry must instead be controlled to avoid any monopoly and any questionable practices, which are being challenged, as in 2013 against a patent granted to syngenta guaranteeing it exclusive rights to all peppers with resistance to white flies. this patent prohibited farmers and breeders from using these plants without paying syngenta licensing fees. it was not an invention, but a discovery made by crossing species. another lawsuit was filed in late may 2014 against a european patent held by monsanto on fungus-resistant tomatoes. this was again a discovery that the multinational corporation had appropriated. this privatization of life is threatening small and medium-sized seed companies, which risk having their own varieties patented. this was the case, for example, of the french company gautier, which has been obliged since 2013 to pay the dutch seed company zwaan to market an aphid-resistant lettuce that it had selected itself a long time ago. it's still a little weird. the plant variety certificates were already controversial because they called into question the possibility for farmers to re-sow their own seeds free of charge. but despite this constraint, these plant breeding certificates still protected our seed-growers and farmers from patenting. this even more costly and much more restrictive practice is already in place in the united states. today, the epo's outrageous decision and the incomprehensible silence of the european commission seriously call into question what had been adopted, without enthusiasm, as an effective bulwark. more importantly, this decision raises once again the question of aligning european law with that of the united states, obviously with the aim of not hampering the trade negotiations under way. if, to achieve this, the european commission intends to trample on the text adopted in 2012, let it say so frankly!
mr president, commissioner, plant breeding is a particularly innovative sector. this is evidenced, on the one hand, by the high investment in research and development, which accounts for some 15% of the sector's turnover, and, on the other hand, by the genetic progress made by farmers all over the world. the operators need a clear and effective framework and protective tools, but we must also respect a number of ethical principles in relation to the living world. the sui generis right created by the upov convention and the certificate of plant variety origin, which embodies it, remain the most appropriate tools for the protection of plant varieties, and we must defend their exclusive use for this purpose, thus supporting the exclusion of plant varieties from patentability. the acceleration of innovation processes leads to a lag in the time between the pace of innovation and commercial obsolescence. we therefore expect the commission to secure this important sector for our economy.
mr president, commissioner, as we know, international law and the patent directive 98/44/ec explicitly prohibit the patentability of plant varieties, essentially biological processes, animal breeds and native traits, even when these are obtained by natural processes. in a surprising and controversial interpretation of patent law, the grand chamber of the european patent office took a dangerous step in march last year in favour of the patentability of plants obtained by essentially biological processes. the danger of not allowing any breeder to access existing varieties and use them to create new varieties, and any farmer to take his own seeds from his crops, is clear, but also the danger of allowing only a few powerful groups, capable of obtaining patents, to establish a monopoly on living things for a commercial and financial purpose, rather than working for innovation and shared progress. for these reasons, i call on the commission and the member states to clarify and enforce international law.
author. mr president, in 2008, the maldives did indeed have the first multiparty elections in its history. this was short lived, as in 2012, mr. nasheed, the president, was overthrown in a coup. he has since been sentenced for terrorism to 13 years in prison after a trial that was deemed unlawful by maldivian law, including by the un commissioner for human rights, and his detention was ruled arbitrary. he's sick and needs treatment, so he's being transferred overseas. this is symbolic, because there are over 1,700 people reportedly in political prison in the maldives today. the repression is coming down from all sides. the moratorium on the death penalty has been lifted and criminal responsibility is effectively set at 10 years, or even 7. in this climate of freedom-killing and inequality, the maldives is reportedly the country in the region that sends the most young people to iraq and syria, relative to its total population. in this country, which is highly dependent on tourism, especially from europe, the government recently passed a law banning any calls for boycotts. this small country is facing catastrophe, and the rising waters caused by climate change are also threatening it. so yes, the european union must act and it has the means to do so.
for the greens/efa group mr president, as my colleague has just said, when we see the image of european citizens in the maldives, we think: 'it is a paradise on the sea, with the club med floating villages'. but for the people there, it's hell. former president mohamed nasheed, the first and only democratically elected president, is still in prison. why would you do that? because he accuses his rivals, rightly, of exploiting islam. we see that constitutional rights are being violated, that the maldivian judiciary is totally corrupt. the death penalty has been reinstated and even children over 7 years old can face the death penalty, imprisoned until 18 years old, the age of their execution. in addition, a state of emergency was declared by the government for six days last month. but what can we do? firstly, as far as the travel agencies are concerned, i think we should tell them that it is imperative that they no longer offer this destination to holidaymakers. i also call on tourists to take responsibility for not going to the maldives. we alone have the power to stifle the only income available to the government, which is tourism. if we want to change this regime, we need sanctions. the sanctions are first and foremost on us: on us, the future tourists, not to go there. but europe can also act, because it is the second largest trading partner of the maldives. we must find ways to constrain power. we must, in particular, put in place targeted measures against government supporters, from the freezing of their assets abroad to travel bans in europe. we must act, commissioner. we are all responsible, including for the situation in the maldives. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i agree with you completely, and that is the point of my speech. there are several responsibilities. first, if we decide to go to the maldives knowing the hell that the people are living, we become co-responsible. you have to say no to travel agencies that offer to go to the maldives, because if you go there, you strengthen the power there. secondly, at european level: why am i questioning the european commissioner in office? well, because if we have trade deals, we need to be able to put pressure. how do we get these people moving? if we do nothing, we are complicit. doing nothing is complicit in the situation. so we all have a role to play.
author. mr president, anwar ibrahim is a symbol in a way. the liberal fell out of favour with the government for its handling of the asian crisis in the late 1990s, whereby it imposed a very harsh austerity cure, but also cancelled a number of opaque industrial megaprojects, which is unbearable in a country where corruption reigns supreme. he created pakatan rakyat in an attempt to bridge communal divides. every election success has landed him in prison for sodomy, a disgrace in a country that is ultra-conservative in its morals. security and freedom-destroying laws are multiplying. minorities, lgbti people and women are the main victims, but journalists, intellectuals, ngo activists and political opponents are also victims. the fight against terrorism is a pretext for all-out repression. the government in power is plunging into violence to preserve the interests of an elite and safeguard its power. only a better distribution of wealth and a political dialogue that respects all the cultural components can bring the country out of the impasse in which it is locked, by exploiting the religious question, at the risk of sinking into the extremism of the same name. here too, there is urgency.
in writing. ‒ a commission of inquiry into the measurement of polluting emissions in the automobile sector, following the notorious volkswagen case, would damage the image and value of european car manufacturers, at a time when the sector is subject to increasingly intense global competition and economic warfare. while we regret that industrialists have circumvented the regulations in force, my colleagues from the national front and i believe that the defence of the economic interests of the member states of the union is essential to maintaining a viable economic and industrial environment in europe. i therefore abstained on this text which calls for the setting up of a committee of inquiry.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal for a decision on the constitution, powers, numerical composition and term of office of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. the commission's proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, as called for by the european left in the wake of the volkswagen scandal, is not the solution to preventing such fraud from happening again. in addition to costing money, it would have no added value compared to existing investigations. this is why the focus should be on better monitoring of national type-approval authorities under the supervision of the european commission, better control of the emissions tests carried out and the implementation of tests in real driving situations as soon as possible. it is with these measures that we will avoid a new scandal! it will also reduce emissions in the automotive sector, which is essential for the environment and the health of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the constitution of this commission. the commission of inquiry requested by the european left, which is in addition to the investigations already under way, is not the solution to ensure that such a fraud does not happen again. we know what measures need to be implemented and that is what we need to focus on: better monitoring by the national type approval authorities under the supervision of the european commission, better control of the emissions tests carried out and the implementation of tests in real driving situations as soon as possible. with these measures we will avoid a new scandal, we will reduce emissions in the automotive sector, which is essential for the environment and the health of our fellow citizens, and we will encourage the industry to make technological progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal to set up a new committee of inquiry into the volkswagen scandal. the commission would be adding to the existing investigations, which would not help to ensure that such cheating does not happen again.
in writing. ‒ the commission of inquiry requested by the european left following the volkswagen scandal, which is added to the judicial investigations currently under way in several member states, is not the solution to ensure that such cheating does not happen again. we know what measures need to be implemented and that is what we need to focus on: better monitoring by the national type approval authorities under the supervision of the european commission, better control of the emissions tests carried out and the implementation of tests in real driving situations as soon as possible. with these measures we will avoid a new scandal, we will reduce emissions in the automotive sector, which is essential for the environment and the health of our fellow citizens, and we will encourage the industry to make technological progress.
in writing. ‒ a commission of inquiry into the measurement of polluting emissions in the automotive sector, following the 'volkswagen affair', could damage the image and value of european car manufacturers in a context of increasingly intense global competition and economic warfare. while transparency is a fundamental issue, the protection of the economic interests of states remains essential to a viable economic and industrial environment in europe. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - i abstained on that resolution. it is true that it has the merit of calling for the creation of a committee of inquiry into the volkswagen case and that it is necessary to measure the pollutant emissions in the automobile sector. i am afraid, however, that the wording of this resolution is not conducive to defending the european car industry in a context of fierce global competition.
in writing. ‒ the volkswagen scandal, which exposed the german car manufacturer's cheating on its nitrogen oxide and co2 emission measurement systems, is a reminder of the need to be vigilant in the face of large industrial groups. from 2009 to 2015, software was installed on more than 11 million vehicles (sold worldwide) to deceive vehicle testing authorities. the subject is eminently european, with maximum emission levels set by the european union. this week the european parliament has issued a doubly ambitious response to this, first to the council and then to the states, which had let their guard down in the face of the interests of the car lobby, by taking the decision to raise the permitted levels of nitrogen oxide emissions. parliament's envi committee rejected this proposal, but, above all, by drafting a resolution which proposed the establishment of a committee of inquiry, thus having special powers, into this fraud and the attitude of the european commission during the period 2009-2015. i am aware of the difficulty of obtaining enough votes to enable parliament to have the means to investigate (it failed after the luxleaks scandal), and i voted without hesitation in favour of setting up the committee of inquiry into the volkswagen scandal.
in writing. ‒ with 283 meps, i called for the creation of a committee of inquiry into the volkswagen scandal ‒ this resolution defines its powers. the commission will be composed of 45 members and will have the task of investigating infringements of eu law concerning emission measurement in the automotive sector. i regret that the specific role of volkswagen is not even mentioned in this resolution. i am voting in favour of the report, but i am very sceptical that the committee will be able to complete its work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request of the european left to set up a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. the european parliament has asked the commission to take action in response to the scandal of volkswagen's emissions cheating and investigations are already under way. the european parliament called for better monitoring of national type-approval authorities under the supervision of the european commission and for the implementation of tests in real driving situations as soon as possible. these recommendations must be followed by action to restore the confidence of europeans in the use of diesel engines, which are cheaper and less polluting than petrol engines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the constitution of this committee of inquiry and i was among the signatories who allowed it to be submitted to the votes of the members of parliament. as cop 21 has just ended, it is a step forward in the fight against the scourge of air pollution and a positive signal sent to european citizens to ensure and strengthen compliance with emission standards. it would have been incomprehensible to our fellow citizens if the european parliament had given in to the pressure of the industrialists, who want above all to continue with business as usual, even if it means endangering public health.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the commission of inquiry requested by the european left following the volkswagen scandal. i don't think it's the elected officials who investigate, but justice. it is the principle of separation of powers that is the basis of our system in france. we must respect the work of the justice system in progress. secondly, this fact-finding mission is not the way to ensure that such a fraud does not happen again. we know what measures need to be implemented and that is what we need to focus on: better monitoring by the national type approval authorities under the supervision of the european commission, better control of the emissions tests carried out and the implementation of tests in real driving situations as soon as possible. with these measures we will avoid a new scandal, we will reduce emissions in the automotive sector, which is essential for the environment and the health of our citizens. the fact-finding mission is not going to solve these problems. it might even slow down the process.
in writing. ‒ in the aftermath of cop 21, while europe showed the extent of its ambition in the fight against co2 emissions, we could not sit idly by in the face of emissions of other pollutants (such as nitrogen oxides and fine particulate matter from diesel engines). the scandal of vehicle emissions fraud, because it is a system that is harmful to both the environment and public health, by allowing cars to emit far more pollutants than the manufacturers advertise, cannot go unpunished any longer, and the european parliament owes the citizens a duty to shed light on the subject, including whether or not european or national institutions are involved in the fraud. i am glad that parliament voted in favour of the committee of inquiry into this fraud, and i hope that this will be only the first step, because after we have identified those responsible we will have to make sure that fraud cannot happen again. above all, we must seize the opportunity to invest in alternative engines, the best way of reconciling the protection of industrial jobs and our environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision establishing a european parliament committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. the aim of this committee, which is composed of 45 members of the european parliament and has clear responsibilities, is to investigate allegations of breaches of eu law and of its misapplication and to make any recommendations it deems necessary. the committee of inquiry will present its final report within 12 months and an interim report on the progress of its work within 6 months. i have supported this committee from the outset and i welcome its establishment, which is the logical response to the revelations that have taken place in the automobile sector and on which we have already expressed our opinion in our resolution of 27 october. the light must be shed on this matter, the responsibilities clearly established. what more is needed if parliament, as the house directly elected by the citizens of europe, can conduct its own inquiry? transparency is certainly essential to restore consumer confidence in a major sector of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the issue in this text is minimal since it is a question of codifying texts. i voted against it, however, because i do not recognise the legitimacy of the european union to negotiate trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ although this is only a matter of codification, i reiterate my opposition to the pretence of the brussels bureaucrats to negotiate trade contracts: it is the member states that must be in the driver's seat in such negotiations.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns a comprehensive framework partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and vietnam (protocol taking into account the accession of croatia). even if the legal status of these texts is not essential, since it is a matter of codification, we must reiterate our opposition to europe negotiating trade agreements behind our backs. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament approve the protocol to take account of the accession of croatia, in the context of the conclusion of the comprehensive partnership and cooperation (cpc) framework agreement between the union and vietnam. signed on 27 june 2012, the saa provides for a number of mutual commitments between the union and the member states, on the one hand, and vietnam, on the other. following the accession of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013, this protocol aims to include croatia among the contracting parties to the agreement. this is a purely legal decision and i have no problem with it, so i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of this partnership and cooperation agreement will strengthen political and economic ties between the european union and vietnam. it will allow for more intensive cooperation on a wide range of issues of common interest, such as the fight against corruption, innovation, including new technologies, sustainable development, disarmament and the fight against terrorism. the vietnamese government has initiated many reforms to modernize its economic model and integrate it into the world economy. in less than 10 years, gdp per capita has doubled and many foreign companies have increased investment. however, some progress still needs to be made in the political field. social and labour standards remain too low, and certain freedoms, such as freedom of association and trade union rights, are not sufficiently guaranteed. the agreement should allow for improvements in these areas. this partnership, which coincides with the conclusion of the eu-vietnam free trade agreement, will allow the eu to increase its presence in asia and its influence in regional bodies such as asean.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, which was simply to include croatia, a new member of the european union, in the conclusion of a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement between the union and vietnam.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the protocol to take account of the accession of croatia in the context of the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. this vote is not directed against croatia. even if this is merely a codification, i would like to reiterate my opposition to the european union concluding trade agreements in the place of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text to show my opposition to the union negotiating trade agreements in place of the european states.
in writing. i voted against this framework agreement. although this is a simple updating of the treaty to include croatia in the partnership with vietnam, which therefore has little impact, we oppose the union's habit of negotiating agreements behind the backs of its member states.
in writing. ‒ the text calls for the cooperation agreement with vietnam to be amended to include croatia, now a member of the european union. this agreement is linked to the free trade agreement which is due to enter into force shortly. i am opposed in principle to the enlargement of this union, which serves the interests of productivism and finance, not the interests of all the citizens who are called upon to make it up. i therefore vote against.
in writing. the subject of this vote is a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam (protocol taking into account the accession of croatia). even if the legal status of these texts is not essential, since it is a matter of codification, we must reiterate our opposition to europe negotiating trade agreements behind our backs. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this purely technical report, which aims to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union, in the framework of the partnership agreement between the european union and vietnam. the european union is the largest export market and the largest provider of official development assistance to vietnam.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this text is to establish a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam (protocol taking into account the accession of croatia). even if the legal status of these texts is not essential, since it is a matter of codification, it is worth reiterating our opposition to the eu negotiating trade agreements behind our backs. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the protocol to take account of croatia's accession to the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. it's a minor change that doesn't pose a problem.
in writing. ‒ just as i opposed the conclusion of the protocol to take account of the accession of croatia to the comprehensive partnership and cooperation framework agreement between the union and vietnam, i do not support the approval of this agreement on the grounds that the european union should not be allowed to conclude trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ although this is only a matter of codification, i reiterate my opposition to the pretence of the brussels bureaucrats to negotiate trade contracts: it is the member states that must be in the driver's seat in such negotiations.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam (approved). even if the legal status of these texts is not essential, since it is a matter of codification, we must reiterate our opposition to europe negotiating trade agreements behind our backs. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the european union decision on the comprehensive partnership and cooperation (cpc) framework agreement between the eu and vietnam. signed on 27 june 2012, the saa provides for a number of mutual commitments between the union and the member states, on the one hand, and vietnam, on the other. it covers the traditional european prerogatives on human rights, the international criminal court, weapons of mass destruction, small arms and counter-terrorism. it aims in particular to strengthen cooperation between the two sides in a range of policy areas, such as taxation, migration, health, the environment, social affairs and technology. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. with this vote, we have approved the conclusion of a comprehensive framework agreement for partnership and cooperation (cpa) between the european union and vietnam. in addition to vietnam, this pta will enable the european union to increase its political and economic engagement in south-east asia.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of this partnership and cooperation agreement will strengthen political and economic ties between the european union and vietnam. it will allow for more intensive cooperation on a wide range of issues of common interest, such as the fight against corruption, innovation, including new technologies, sustainable development, disarmament and the fight against terrorism. the vietnamese government has initiated many reforms to modernize its economic model and integrate it into the world economy. in less than ten years, per capita gdp has doubled and many foreign companies have increased investment. however, some progress still needs to be made in the political field. social and labour standards remain too low, and certain freedoms, such as freedom of association and trade union rights, are not sufficiently guaranteed. the agreement should allow for improvements in these areas. this partnership, which coincides with the conclusion of the eu-vietnam free trade agreement, will allow the eu to increase its presence in asia and its influence in regional groups in the area, such as asean.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation which approves the conclusion of a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement between the union and vietnam, which will allow for increased trade with this important country while making this cooperation subject to respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ front national meps voted against the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and vietnam. this vote is not directed against vietnam. i would like to reiterate my opposition to the european union concluding partnership and cooperation agreements in place of the member states. moreover, free trade is not a remedy for france's problems and will not necessarily help vietnam to develop in a balanced way.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this text to show my opposition to the union negotiating trade agreements in place of the european states.
in writing. dominique martin voted against this framework agreement. as in the previous vote, we are opposed in principle to the union's habit of negotiating agreements behind the backs of its member states, especially trade agreements which will have a major impact on our producers.
in writing. ‒ this text validates the cooperation agreement and the forthcoming free trade agreement with vietnam. he praises the supposed benefits of 'coordination of macroeconomic policies' over the union's totally failed model in this area. i am voting against, as i am against all the other free trade agreements of the union, which are motivated only by the commercial interests of multinational firms, whereas solidarity protectionism and ecological planning should be promoted in trade.
in writing. this recommendation concerns a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam (approval). even if the legal status of these texts is not essential, since it is a matter of codification, we must reiterate our opposition to europe negotiating trade agreements behind our backs. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on relations between the european union and vietnam. the council adopted a decision approving the conclusion of a framework partnership and cooperation agreement with the country. the european union is the largest export market and the largest provider of official development assistance to vietnam.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam (approved). even if the legal status of these texts is not essential, since it is a matter of codification, we must reiterate our opposition to europe negotiating trade agreements behind our backs. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the approval of the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. this is a necessary and important step for the european parliament in the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ this agreement is once again based on the dogma of free trade in all its forms promoted by the european union. several aspects of this text constitute interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. we in the national front believe that free trade is not necessarily a panacea. it will not solve the problems of france, nor will it help vietnam to develop in a balanced way. that is why i voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ contrary to what the eurocrats seem to think, free trade is not a remedy for france's problems and will not help vietnam to develop in a balanced way. that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam (resolution). i voted against because i remain convinced that free trade is not a remedy for france's problems and will not necessarily help vietnam to develop in a balanced way.
in writing. ‒ this resolution echoes the conclusion of the comprehensive partnership and cooperation framework agreement (cpa) between the eu and vietnam. meps welcome the government's reforms to integrate vietnam into the global market economy, as well as its commitments to implement the recommendations of the un human rights council and reform the judiciary by 2020. parliament called on vietnam to step up its efforts to improve the socioeconomic conditions of religious and ethnic minorities. given the strategic importance of this agreement, and knowing that vietnam is a key partner of the union in the south-east asian region and in asean, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution. the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation will allow the union to increase its political and economic engagement in south-east asia, including through the creation of a human rights monitoring instrument.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of this partnership and cooperation agreement will strengthen political and economic ties between the european union and vietnam. it will allow for more intensive cooperation on a wide range of issues of common interest, such as the fight against corruption, innovation, including new technologies, sustainable development, disarmament and the fight against terrorism. the vietnamese government has initiated many reforms to modernize its economic model and integrate it into the world economy. in less than 10 years, gdp per capita has doubled and many foreign companies have increased investment. however, some progress still needs to be made in the political field. social and labour standards remain too low, and certain freedoms, such as freedom of association and trade union rights, are not sufficiently guaranteed. the agreement should allow for improvements in these areas. this partnership, which coincides with the conclusion of the eu-vietnam free trade agreement, will allow the eu to increase its presence in asia and its influence in regional groups in the area, such as asean.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it welcomes the future conclusion of a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and vietnam, while encouraging the eu to support the establishment of good governance rules and the promotion of human rights in vietnam.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the lochbihler report on the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. the commission does not have to take the place of the member states in concluding partnership and cooperation agreements. this text is yet another interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states. moreover, free trade is not a remedy for france's problems and will not necessarily help vietnam to develop in a balanced way.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because free trade is not a remedy for france's problems and will not necessarily help vietnam to develop in a balanced way.
in writing. dominique martin voted against this resolution. as in the two previous votes, we are opposed in principle to the union's habit of negotiating agreements behind the backs of its member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted.
in writing. ‒ the european union is about to initiate a free trade agreement with vietnam. the rapporteur has done everything in her power to link this agreement to the one containing a 'human rights clause' so that it can eventually be used to suspend the neoliberal agreement. in other agreements with third countries, this clause is systematically left untouched, as for example in saudi arabia, which plans to kill the 2015 sakharov prize by whipping it to death. there's no reason it should be any different in this case. the union is competing with the united states of america to create the largest possible free trade area in south-east asia. not to mention the systematic lecturing and interference in the affairs of other countries. i vote against it.
in writing. this report concerns a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam (resolution). i voted against because i remain convinced that free trade is not a remedy for france's problems and will not necessarily help vietnam to develop in a balanced way.
in writing. ‒ the text welcomes the conclusion of the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement between vietnam and the european union. vietnam is a major partner of the union, which provides it with eur 400 million in official development assistance over the period 2014-2020. the resolution underlines the progress made by vietnam in the fight against poverty and in the development of human rights. it emphasises the actions still to be taken to consolidate the rule of law. however, certain provisions of the text, which are strongly critical of vietnamese internal policy, going so far as to call for the amendment of certain articles of the penal code or for the abandonment of the construction of a nuclear power plant, are a real interference and do not live up to the friendship between the union and vietnam. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and vietnam (resolution). i voted against because i remain convinced that free trade is not a remedy for france's problems and will not help vietnam to develop in a balanced way.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution accompanying the eu-vietnam comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. we have entered the 25th anniversary of our relations with vietnam and are on the verge of concluding an exemplary trade agreement. our companies will be able to invest more easily in a country with high growth potential. a whole middle class has emerged whose needs can be met by our companies, whether in terms of infrastructure, goods or services. i saw the full benefits of this agreement when i visited vietnam in april 2015.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement concluded in 2012 between the union and vietnam. this agreement extends the scope of cooperation in the fields of science, migration, tourism and culture, which is welcome, but it also incorporates the bilateral free trade agreement concluded on 4 august 2015. the resolution stresses important points such as the need for an immediate moratorium on the death penalty and the ratification of the international labour organisation conventions, in particular those relating to freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. it also welcomes vietnam's law allowing same-sex marriage. it also expressed concern about environmental degradation and land grabbing, which is a real scourge in vietnam. but a free trade agreement is a free trade agreement, so the resolution calls for respect for wto rules and for "coordination of macroeconomic policies" between vietnam and the eu. and we know the devastation it's caused all over the world. i regret that a country like vietnam is forced to negotiate such an agreement with the union. so i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report acknowledges the failure of the euro area. the single currency has not lived up to its promises. profitable for some countries, it has been a drag on the economies of others. the euro was a utopia. unfortunately, in the face of this, the answer given by this report is that we need more europe. the opposite is true. it takes less europe and more national sovereignty to adjust the currency to the economies of the countries. i therefore voted with my colleagues against this report, which is strongly tinged with european federalism.
in writing. ‒ this resolution entitled 'completing europe's economic and monetary union' is a very federalist text which i cannot support despite the intention to give more power and control back to parliament.
in writing. ‒ in october, the european commission published the necessary steps towards completing economic and monetary union (emu), which echoed the five presidents' report published earlier in the year. in this resolution, the european parliament welcomes the desire to complete the european union but questions the means of achieving it. the resolution stresses the need for cooperation between the various institutions in order to achieve an optimal result in european economic governance. many obstacles remain to be overcome in order to achieve a more efficient economic and monetary union better adapted to the current economic challenges. i would remind you that the improvement of emu requires the application of the six-pack and two-pack rules. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in response to the commission communication of 26 november on the union's economic and social priorities for 2016, this resolution sets out the european parliament's recommendations for completing economic and monetary union (emu). it proposes specific measures to deal with the increase in unemployment and to improve the employment of young people and the social situation of european citizens. i voted in favour of the resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i regret that the european commission's measures do not leave enough room for parliamentary scrutiny and debate at european level. they are, however, essential to give democratic weight to decisions taken in the context of the european economic and monetary union (emu) and to ensure that citizens take ownership of the governance of the euro area. that is why i voted for the resolution entitled 'completing economic and monetary union'. the vote will be taken to request the opening of negotiations with a view to concluding an interinstitutional agreement with parliament, the council and the eurogroup on european economic governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on 'completing europe's economic and monetary union'. this text is very federalist in spirit and refuses to accept the obvious, namely that the single currency will never be able to ensure real convergence and cohesion within the euro area. the euro is a straitjacket for the member states. it has also widened the economic imbalances between them. this resolution will not change that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on economic and monetary union because it is openly federalist in spirit. the amendments supported by the fn members, which were trying to defend national sovereignty, were also rejected by an overwhelming rps majority!
in writing. ‒ the european commission published its proposals on 21 october on the completion of economic and monetary union. both in terms of method and substance, they are evidence of a regrettable leap forward in the euro area. no proposal is legislative, so the european parliament will have no say in the matter. the proposals validate the eurozone's liberal and technocratic orientation, with an obsession with the same "structural reforms" that have not produced the expected effects so far and that elude the structural differences of european economies. the european parliament responded with a resolution, tabled by roberto gualtieri, chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. this is a text about a missed opportunity. not only was parliament bypassed, but above all its different vision of the euro area and the reforms to be made to it was not reflected in the resolution. it is an illustration of a logic of compromise by subtraction, and it is reduced to a pity. because it denounces the non-legislative nature of these proposals and calls for a democratic deepening which systematically involves parliament, i voted in favour of this text, but i regret that it is limited to an institutional message.
in writing. ‒ this parliament report builds on the commission's proposal for the completion of economic and monetary union. the report focuses on institutional aspects and, in this context, criticises the lack of democratic control by the european parliament in the implementation of emu. but not a word about national parliaments, the flouted referendums or the other recurrent violations of the sovereignty of the peoples by the union ... above all, this report validates the neoliberal line pursued by the eu. he stresses that "progress has been made in the right direction" in implementing emu, ignoring the imbalances between states created by the euro and the coups d'état by the ecb and the eurogroup against legitimate governments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the regime of permanent financial coup d'état is thus legitimized. i vote against it.
in writing. this resolution entitled 'completing europe's economic and monetary union' is a very federalist text which i cannot support despite the intention to give more power and control back to parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the european economic and monetary union. the text calls on the commission to address the shortcomings of the current institutional framework of the euro area by completing emu. it stressed that the existing treaties and instruments should allow some of the necessary additional steps to be taken and called for greater scrutiny and debate in the european parliament in this area.
in writing. ‒ this resolution entitled 'completing europe's economic and monetary union' is a very federalist text which i cannot support. i do not want to complete economic and monetary union, but to restrict it or even to abolish it, because the euro is one of the main sources of economic problems in the majority of countries which have the misfortune of having it as their currency. i voted against this text, of course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the economic and monetary union of europe. much progress has been made but some adjustments are still needed for a functioning under democratic control, with ambition and better involvement of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which i believe sets out the relevant guidelines for completing economic and monetary union. the report by the five presidents and the proposals put forward by the commission are a further step in this direction. however, as our assembly points out, this is not enough and further efforts are needed, particularly to address the shortcomings of the institutional framework of the euro area. parliamentary control and debate must also be strengthened in the context of economic and monetary union, which is not the case with the measures proposed by the commission. how can we overcome this pitfall? our resolution sets out a number of ways. the commission will have to consult parliament when preparing the white paper on the transition between the first and second stages of the reforms of economic and monetary union, as provided for in the report by the five presidents. the interinstitutional agreement on european economic governance must ensure that the structure of the european semester allows for regular and effective parliamentary scrutiny. the commission must ensure that the international representation of the euro area is subject to the democratic control of our assembly.
in writing. ‒ like the united states, the european union likes to give lessons in democracy to the whole world and impose its ideologies. it should be noted, however, that his indignation is selective and variable in geometry. it is quite significant in this text that russia is constantly targeted and denounced as an aggressive country and a violator of human rights. but not a word about turkey and the gulf countries, and still less about the western interference which has led to chaos in iraq and libya in the name of human rights. of course, this report gives the best to immigrants, lgbti minorities and roma. as always, all these populations would be victims of odious discrimination. from this point of view, mass immigration policies, liberal laws (marriage and adoption for homosexuals, the dissemination of gender theory in the school environment), expulsions from illegal and unsanitary camps are presented as intolerable violations of human rights. with my colleagues from the national front, i naturally voted against this report to the ideology that destroys the nation and the family.
in writing. i voted against the core of pure ideology that is the preda report on human rights. once again, the european institutions are more concerned about the discrimination suffered by minorities such as the roma, migrants, etc., than about the increasingly precarious situation of the european peoples, who are victims of mass unemployment and of the austerity measures implemented by brussels. the text of mr preda is another example of hypocrisy, for while it recalls the inalienable right of peoples to self-determination, it once again attacks the imperialist role of the union, which, by its utter interference, is supposed to bring human rights and democracy to the rest of the world. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a shame when we see the treatment of european leaders who dare to listen to the will of their people. finally, this report is a new slap in the face to the sovereignty of the member states, which are now obliged to bow to the commission, which is gradually becoming the only one with the right to conduct diplomacy on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report recalls the importance for the union to use all the political instruments at its disposal to promote respect for human rights and democratic principles throughout the world. the rapporteur calls in particular for better implementation of european measures, such as the action plan for human rights and democracy 2015-2019, and for the initiative of the eusr for human rights to be strengthened. the commission also considers that it is necessary to better integrate actions to support human rights and democracy into the union's external policies (development, migration and neighbourhood policies). the text also refers to the rights of indigenous peoples, the death penalty, the rights of women and children and torture, and stresses the importance of supporting electoral processes in order to promote democratisation. i voted in favour of the report, in support of these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i am very concerned about the growing threat to human rights and democratic values such as freedom of expression, freedom of thought, conscience and religion or freedom of assembly and association in many parts of the world, especially in authoritarian regimes. that's why i voted for the 2014 annual report. with this vote, i also believe that it is urgent to tackle the root causes of migration flows by addressing the external dimension of the refugee crisis. but i am opposed to the system of quotas per country, which is not a long-term answer. finally, i welcome the conclusions of the european council on the promotion and protection of the rights of the child adopted in december 2014, and therefore i call on the european union to continue to support partner countries in combating all forms of violence against children. i have, however, abstained on the issue of lgbti rights and gay marriage because, in my view, this is not a matter for a member of the european parliament but for the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as a whole. the text calls on the union to use all the instruments at its disposal to promote respect for human rights and democratic principles in the world. however, i abstained on paragraph 104 of the report because, while it does mention the necessary gender equality, there is also an ambiguity in the text of this paragraph when it calls for 'publicly addressing gender issues'. not knowing what is behind it (but assuming it!) i prefer to abstain in view of the ambiguous wording. on the contrary, i voted for paragraph 105 which calls for quotas to be set up for women's representation in political/public life. this is already the case in france. finally, i voted for paragraph 114 because it condemns surrogacy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and on the european union's policy on the matter. as every year, this report shows the worst of the federalist ideology. the text recognises a diplomatic role for the european union. it uses human rights as a pretext to justify a substitution of the member states by the european union on the international scene. it imposes the union's vision on 'climate refugees', etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this all-encompassing text on human rights because it seeks both to deny the sovereignty of the eu member states and to interfere in the internal affairs of third states, in particular morocco, when it is a reliable partner that the union should rather support. the only consolation is that the fn mps voted to condemn the use of surrogacy!
in writing. i voted against this report. this report, which is entirely ideological, is concerned about the discrimination suffered by minorities such as the roma, migrants, etc., at a time when european citizens are victims of mass unemployment and brussels austerity which is driving them to ruin. in a text full of contradictions and paradoxes, mr preda recalls, on the one hand, the inalienable right of peoples to self-determination, while at the same time emphasizing the imperialist role of the union which, by means of the most total interference, is supposed to bring human rights and democracy to the rest of the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the european parliament reports on the state of human rights in the world. despite some good points on freedom of conscience, the rights of the child and development aid, the report is mainly aimed at strengthening the union's foreign policy. the eu should be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. and as usual, it is always the same countries that are being singled out. of course, the most cited countries in the 140-paragraph report are china and russia. but not a word about the united states, when the report claims to defend a moratorium on the death penalty. nor a word about saudi arabia, who happily pelt and decapitate. i am voting against this hypocritical report with its denunciations of variable geometries, which is used as an excuse to justify the union's policy of interference.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which gives an annual overview of human rights and democracy in the world. beyond several anti-russian provisions which do nothing but worsen relations between the union and russia, at a time when our producers and consumers continue to suffer from the sterile escalation of reciprocal sanctions, the report validates the concept of the distribution of migrants by quotas within the member states. i was therefore unable to vote in favour. it should be noted that paragraph 63 of the text refers to "respect for racial diversity". it was adopted by a large majority, from the extreme left to the socialists, from the centre to the right, without causing any particular controversy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which proposes guidelines for the union's human rights policy. the issue of climate refugees is very relevant because it is the next mass migration that we will face if we do nothing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and on the european union's policy on the matter. it is a reference report every year on this issue. many proposals will contribute to the building of democracy in the world.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and on the european union's policy on the matter. respect for human rights is under threat everywhere, and more than half the world's population still lives under undemocratic and repressive regimes. i welcome the various eu instruments for the promotion of human rights and democracy in the world, including the eu annual report and the new action plan for 2015-2019. we have a duty to respond to the various human rights challenges: tackling the root causes of migration flows, against all forms of religious discrimination, for the respect of lgbti rights, for the rights of women, girls and children, or for freedom of expression and the strengthening of civil society. finally, i believe it is important to integrate human rights and democracy support policy into all the union's external policies and to ensure overall coherence in the union's action in this area.
in writing. ‒ as a reminder, the dayton agreements were signed on 14 december 1995. they stopped the fighting in bosnia and herzegovina. one of the challenges today is to maintain the institutional balance of the dayton agreements in order to preserve civil peace and prevent the rights of the serb minority from being violated. that was the whole point of the alternative motion for a resolution which we tabled with the members of the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party. the joint motion for a resolution, on the other hand, repeatedly insisted on the forthcoming accession of bosnia, an accession which we oppose in principle, since we in the national front are resolutely opposed to the construction of a european union and a fortiori to its enlargement. that is why, since our alternative proposal was not adopted, i voted against the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i opposed this text which celebrates an agreement made behind the backs of the people by the american hegemony. the agreements put an end in 1995 to the bloody war that had torn the former yugoslavia since 1991. however, they only endorsed the partition of the country into two ethnic states - the federation of bosnia and herzegovina and the serb republic of bosnia, within an artificially unitary entity. the serbs and the bosnian croats were thus forced by an external gendarme to make common cause, without, 20 years later, the central institutions really functioning properly. can we really be happy when, from 1997, the international community imposed on bosnia and herzegovina a high civilian representative charged with taking "binding decisions" and "provisional measures": such as imposing common number plates, a single passport, a currency, a law on citizenship, a new flag, not to mention the dismissals of several local elected officials...? what about the right of peoples to self-determination, which has been strongly emphasized on many occasions in the european parliament, and again at this december part-session, in the preda report?
in writing. ‒ although the dayton agreements formally ended the deadly conflict between bosniaks, croats and serbs in december 1995, they are above all a sign of the inability of member state governments and european institutions to resolve this ethnic conflict. these agreements have left ethnic and religious divisions in the marble, creating many tensions between the different communities. under the auspices of the americans and without any democratic consultation, the ultimate authority of this state has been entrusted to a high representative of the international community. through the imf, austerity measures were imposed on them, which have only increased poverty, social inequality and youth unemployment. we also oppose, as this motion for a resolution calls for, the continuation of the process of bosnia's accession to the european union, because we consider that the enlargement of the union is a hindrance to the prosperity of the member states. we also object to the special attention that this proposal is trying to give to the roma, who would be the first victims of these community tensions. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ the dayton peace accords marked the end of the war in bosnia and the creation of the federal state of bosnia and herzegovina in 1995. these agreements establish a system of governance in which the various federated entities are represented. the high representative for bosnia and herzegovina is responsible for ensuring that the dayton agreements are implemented. the complexity of the governance system makes political decision-making complicated, which endangers the stability of the country. although the country has enjoyed relative peace for twenty years, many obstacles still need to be overcome in order to establish an autonomous and functional state. as a candidate country for accession to the european union, bosnia and herzegovina is supported by the european union in implementing the reforms necessary for its proper functioning. there is still a great deal of work to be done before bosnia and herzegovina becomes a member of the union. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets out the european parliament's position on the political situation in bosnia and herzegovina in the context of the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement and the ongoing process of bosnia and herzegovina's accession to the union. the dayton peace accords were intended to end years of unrelenting political conflict and ethnic tension in the country, which had resulted in many deaths and millions of displaced persons. although the situation has improved markedly in the last 20 years, since bosnia and herzegovina has not experienced any major incidents, much remains to be done before it is integrated into the union. the association and stabilisation agreement signed in 2015 offers new prospects for cooperation, according to meps, but can be compromised by short-term political initiatives, such as the referendum organised by the republic of serbia (one of the two administrative entities making up bosnia and herzegovina) on the federal judiciary, which threatens the country's cohesion, sovereignty and integrity and progress towards eu membership. i have voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that internal political stability and respect for the fundamental principles of the union are key conditions for the integration of a country into the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution marking the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement which marked the end of the conflict in bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement. the text repeatedly stresses bosnia's imminent accession to the european union. such an accession would not be in the interests of the peoples of europe. the question of bosnia-herzegovina's membership has nothing to do with the tragic events which led to the dayton peace agreement. yes, we must commemorate the conclusion of that agreement. but this parliament must stop exploiting everything and everything for the permanent purpose of enlarging and deepening the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it insists on the prospect of bosnia's accession to the european union. i am against any enlargement of the european union.
in writing. i opposed this text. although we are glad that this agreement put an end in 1995 to the bloody war which was tearing the former yugoslavia apart, the fact remains that this agreement was concluded behind the backs of the peoples. this arbitrary decision by the united states forcibly separated this former country into two separate entities: the federation of bosnia and herzegovina and the serbian republic of bosnia, and drew new borders at random, forcing culturally different peoples to coexist. this forced cohabitation has obviously failed, to the extent that in 1997 bosnia and herzegovina had to be forced to have a high civilian representative in charge of taking "binding decisions" and "provisional measures": in this case to impose common number plates, a single passport, a currency, a law on citizenship, a new flag, etc. the european union then allows itself to be very laymen about the freedom of peoples to dispose of themselves and about human rights. she's quick to forget that she's the first one to break them.
in writing. ‒ the dayton peace agreement, signed in paris on 14 december 1995, put an end to the interethnic fighting in bosnia and herzegovina, which is itself ethnically motivated. it organised the partition of the territory between the federation of bosnia and herzegovina (bosnian croat) and the serb republic of bosnia (serb). this dayton system perpetuates the "ethnic" division of the population and complicates the decision-making process. the report generally welcomes the agreement, but mentions some of its failures. but above all, the resolution takes the 20th anniversary of this agreement as a pretext for relaunching the process of bosnia-herzegovina's accession to the european union. i have too much friendship for the peoples of the balkans to wish them to join the austerity-driven european union. i am voting against this text.
in writing. the dayton accords ended the bloody war that had torn the former yugoslavia since 1991. however, they only endorsed the partition of the country into two ethnic states the federation of bosnia and herzegovina and the bosnian serb republic within an artificially unitary entity. the serbs and the bosnian croats were thus forced by an external gendarme to make common cause, without, twenty years later, the central institutions actually functioning properly. can we really be happy that since 1997 the international community has imposed on bosnia and herzegovina a high civilian representative with the task of taking "binding decisions" and "provisional measures" such as imposing common number plates, a single passport, a currency, a citizenship law, a new flag, not to mention the dismissals of several local elected officials? ... what about the right of peoples to self-determination, which has been strongly recalled many times in the european parliament, and again in this december session, in the preda report? i voted against this text which celebrates an agreement made behind the backs of the peoples by american hegemony.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement. the text recalls the importance of the signing of this agreement on 14 december 1995 in paris, which brought to an end the bloodiest war europe has seen since the end of the second world war. however, it regrets that, despite the peace that has been restored, successive governments have failed to build a fully functioning and autonomous state. the text encourages the country to undertake reforms, in particular to reduce the institutional complexity of bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ the dayton accords ended the bloody war that had torn the former yugoslavia since 1991. however, they only endorsed the partition of the country into two ethnic states the federation of bosnia and herzegovina and the bosnian serb republic within an artificially unitary entity. the serbs and the bosnian croats were thus forced by an external gendarme to make common cause, without, twenty years later, the central institutions actually functioning properly. can we really be happy that since 1997 the international community has imposed on bosnia and herzegovina a high civilian representative charged with taking "binding decisions" and "provisional measures", such as imposing common license plates, a single passport, a currency, a citizenship law, a new flag, and the dismissal of several local elected officials? what about the right of peoples to self-determination, which has been strongly emphasized on many occasions in the european parliament, and again at this december part-session, in the preda report? i voted against this text which celebrates an agreement made behind the backs of the peoples by american hegemony.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement. this dayton peace agreement, signed in paris on december 14, 1995, ended the bloodiest war europe had seen since the end of world war ii. the agreement recognized the abuses committed during that terrible conflict, but it did not provide a lasting solution in the reconstruction of lasting and strong ties between the communities. however, we must bear in mind the positive transformation of bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which commemorates the 20th anniversary of the dayton peace agreement and calls in particular on the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to continue the reform process. it is important to strengthen regional cooperation and the process of european integration, which will help to promote reconciliation. it is also essential to respond to the socioeconomic needs of citizens, to establish an effective mechanism for coordination on community matters and to pursue political reforms and the democratisation of the political system.
in writing. - 20 years ago the dayton peace accords were signed, ending the war in bosnia and herzegovina between serbs, croats and bosniaks which claimed the lives of some 100,000 people. rather than finding a lasting solution to the conflict, these agreements froze it by creating a complex political system, split into two entities called the "federation of bosnia and herzegovina" (populated mainly by bosniaks and croats) and the "republic of serbs". the dayton system thus perpetuates the communal division of the population. the political system is structured according to this criterion rather than in the pursuit of the general interest and in fact blocks any development in these countries where endemic corruption and unemployment have caused large-scale protests last year. the resolution recognised that the agreement had failed to create a functioning and autonomous state and that a credible alternative was urgently needed. it calls for meeting the socioeconomic needs of the population, as well as for democratization and reform of the political system. i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution concerns the export of arms. but beyond this, the report is moving in the direction of a europe of defence. several elements of the text assign to the european union the role of ensuring the foreign policy and security of its member states. the european union is thus entrusted with the task of deciding which countries should or should not benefit from arms exports in the name, of course, of the defence of human rights, for which parliament has been a champion. the report seeks to extend the eu's powers under the pretext of fighting arms trafficking. i think that we must be firm on these sensitive issues. the defence and arms industries must remain under the full control of the states, since they are essential to the maintenance of their sovereignty and the independence of the peoples. "he who wants peace prepares for war"... i therefore logically voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report of a confusing naivety.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns arms exports and in particular their implementation in the framework of common position 2008/944/cfsp. this is a very sensitive subject, but we must nevertheless adopt a firm stance. the defence and arms industries must be the sole responsibility of the state. the eu and, through it, many competitors (germany) and other countries which no longer have defence or military industries need not influence our trade policy in this area. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's annual evaluation of the implementation of the 2008 common position on arms exports. the report calls for stricter application of the criteria of the agreement through greater coordination at european level. the rapporteur calls on the member states to increase transparency on arms exports. the rapporteur also stresses the need to apply a more coherent embargo policy between the eu states and to increase cooperation between the member states, the european agencies (europol, eurojust) and third parties, in order to facilitate the prosecution of arms traffickers. with my colleagues from the epp group we have expressed a great deal of criticism of the unrealistic demands made on member states to provide information on contracts and the general arms trade. the rapporteur is encroaching on the competences of the member states and is ignoring the specific features of their arms export regimes. the french regime for arms export controls is, for example, stricter than the common position on all the criteria. for these reasons i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ faced with the scourge of terrorism and the risk of the spread of military weapons around the world, europe needs to better control its arms exports. it is therefore imperative that the member states of the union apply existing provisions, in particular the european arms export code, more vigilantly and transparently. the controls on the destination of weapons by the member states should also be improved, while respecting the sovereignty of countries, so that weapons do not fall into the wrong hands. the union and the member states must make the best use of the tools at their disposal to ensure the safety of european citizens and the integrity of the common space.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on arms exports. this is a delicate subject but one on which we must be firm: the defence and arms industries should be under the sovereignty of the state. i do not accept that the defence policies of the member states should be subordinated to the interests of the european union. this, and through it some of our competitors (germany in particular) and many other countries which today have no defence industries, no army, or even the memory of having one, must not influence our trade policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that the defence and arms industries should not be placed under the union's jurisdiction but should continue to be a matter for the sovereignty of the states. it is a report which is in fact hostile to france, which is one of the world's leading arms manufacturers. in the face of terrorism, this is no time to give up on the free use of this know-how!
in writing. i voted against this text. we are firm on this issue: the defence and armaments industries should be the responsibility of the member states, not the union. we will not allow our competitors, such as germany, or the union, which has never had an army, to dictate our conduct. we must be free to do whatever is necessary to protect our citizens and our territory.
in writing. ‒ in 2008, the eu arms trade code was replaced by the legally binding eu common position (2008/944 / cfsp). it sets out eight criteria for the export of conventional arms. these completely hypocritical standards reveal the mirage of the union's common foreign and security policy. the member states are happy to derogate from this. criterion 2 mentions 'respect for human rights in the country of final destination' but the report does not say a word about arms exports to saudi arabia. criterion 3 states that "arms exports must not serve to aggravate or prolong tensions in the country of final destination" while the report "notes the decision of some member states to supply defensive arms to ukraine" without being unduly alarmed. the rapporteur, however, is 'very concerned about the consequences for the security and defence of the union of the transfer of sensitive knowledge and technology to third countries, such as russia'. i am in favour of democratic control of arms exports, which largely disqualifies the union for this. i am voting against this text.
in writing. this report concerns arms exports and in particular its implementation under common position 2008/944/cfsp. this is a very sensitive subject, but we must nevertheless adopt a firm stance. the defence and arms industries must be the sole responsibility of the state. the union and, through it, many competitors (germany) and other countries which no longer have defence or military industries need not influence our trade policy in this area. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this annual report on the quality of controls carried out by member states on arms exports. the text calls for the sharing of very detailed information on member states' exports. the application of the common provisions in this field is and must remain a national competence. france, for its part, applies a system of arms export controls which goes beyond the eight criteria defined in the common position.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns arms exports and in particular their implementation in the framework of common position 2008/944/cfsp. this is a very delicate subject, but it is necessary to adopt a firm stance. the defence and arms industries must be the sole responsibility of the state. the union and, through it, many competitors (germany) and other countries which no longer have defence or military industries need not influence our trade policy in this area. so i decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ although this is a sensitive issue, especially in a context of remilitarization of many regions in the world, i have taken a position on this vote that does not fit into the caricatures that can be heard here and there. the tone of the report is rather accusatory and does not take into account the specific features of the french arms export regime. the french arms export control system goes beyond the eight criteria defined by the common position and our arms export policy already takes into account the strategic situation and the regional environment of the state of destination. so let us be vigilant but not mix up all the situations on a subject that needs not passions, but reason.
in writing. ‒ the european union is one of the world's leading arms exporters. the value of these exports amounted to eur 36,7 billion in 2013, of which eur 26,7 billion was to third countries. these arms exports will directly feed repressive regimes, including terrorist networks. the european union is therefore responsible for the many conflicts in the southern and eastern regions of the union, including ukraine, syria, iraq and libya, as a result of this deadly trade. the report denounces this and the total lack of transparency in this trade. only 21 countries provide information in this area. the details of arms trade in the three largest arms exporters, france, britain and germany, remain completely opaque. despite criticism of the devastating effects of the arms trade, the report maintains a positive assessment of european foreign policy. such a contradiction, despite the findings and recommendations of this report, is not acceptable to me as a guarantee of stability and world peace. this is a matter of serious doubt when we consider the destructive and deadly effects of these policies of interference in third countries. i therefore preferred to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the european patent office has agreed to patent plant characteristics. this is not the approach of the eu and france, which believe that plant characteristics and the 'material' used by breeders should remain accessible to all. to ensure that the work of breeders is protected to a minimum, france and the union have introduced a certificate of plant breeding. this mechanism allows farmers to harvest their crops with a contribution paid to breeding bodies. compared with us patent law, the european approach is the lesser evil. i think that this motion for a resolution expresses the need to separate from the us patent law which covers living things, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the european patent office has agreed to patent plant characteristics, which is contrary to the approach of the eu and france, which believe that plant characteristics and the 'material' used by breeders must remain accessible to all. the solution adopted by the eu (2012) and france is the introduction of plant variety certificates (pvcs), which are a form of protection for the work of breeders without preventing their use for other work. for farmers, it is also a guarantee that they can reap whatever crops they have harvested, with a contribution. despite this last point, vocs are a lesser evil compared to us patent law, which covers living things and therefore benefits only a minority of multinationals such as monsanto, which does not hesitate to send its "seed militia" to check that farmers do not resent the varieties that "belong" to it... the resolution calls for the union not to align itself with us law, and once again in the context of the ttip negotiations. that is why i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution and the amendments tabled by the greens.
in writing. ‒ the european patent office has agreed to patent plant characteristics, which is contrary to the approach of the eu and france, which believe that these and the material used by breeders should remain accessible to all. the solution adopted is the introduction of plant breeding certificates, which are a form of protection for the work of breeders without preventing their use for other work. for farmers, this allows them to reap the harvest. the cvo is therefore a lesser evil compared to us patent law which benefits only multinationals. the resolution calls for the eu not to align itself with us law in the ttip. i therefore voted in favour of the joint resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls on the european commission to clarify the european patent rules in order to ensure unlimited use of organic material by seed breeders and thus to promote innovation while ensuring a level playing field for small breeders. the recent decision of the european patent office (epo) court to allow patents even on plant traits obtained by conventional breeding techniques, such as crosses, raises the question of the consequences in terms of hindering innovation and threatening global food security. based on a narrow interpretation of article 53 (b) of the european patent convention and article 4 of the biotechnology inventions directive, this decision calls for urgent clarification in order to avoid negative consequences for the competitiveness of the european union. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ in 1998, the european commission published a directive excluding essentially biological processes (plant varieties, animal breeds) from the scope of patentability. however, on 25 march 2015, the european patent office (epo) issued two opinions allowing the grant of a patent for a plant resulting from an essentially biological process. the consequence of this principle would not only be to restrict the work of farmers but, above all, to restrict access to patents to those with sufficient means, while slowing down innovation in this sector. in voting in favour of this resolution, we ask the european commission to reject the opinions of the epo by taking a new stand against the patentability of essentially biological processes.
in writing. ‒ i call on the commission and the member states to clarify and enforce international law and the patent directive 98/44, which explicitly prohibits the patentability of plant varieties, 'essentially biological processes' of animal breeds and native traits, including when these are obtained by natural processes. the grand chamber of the european patent office took a dangerous step in march last year in favour of the patentability of plants obtained by 'essentially biological processes'. this is unacceptable. abuse of patents would undermine the legislation on plant varieties, which allows any breeder to access and use existing varieties to create new varieties, and also allows any farmer to extract his own seeds from his crops. it would also create another danger: that only a few powerful groups capable of obtaining patents would monopolize life for commercial and financial purposes rather than for innovation and shared progress. i therefore call for extreme vigilance when negotiating trade and partnership agreements with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to clarify legally the prohibition of the patentability of products obtained by essentially biological processes, otherwise access to patents would be reserved for only those with sufficient means.
in writing. ‒ the european patent office has agreed to patent plant characteristics, which is contrary to the approach of the eu and france, which believe that plant characteristics and the 'material' used by breeders must remain accessible to all. the solution chosen by the union (2012) and by france is the introduction of certificates of plant breeding, which are a form of protection of the work of breeders, without preventing their use for other work. for farmers, it is also a guarantee that they can re-grow their crops, with a contribution (a kind of tax paid to the organizations that bring together breeders). despite this last point, vocs are a lesser evil compared to us patent law, which benefits only a minority of multinationals such as monsanto (which does not hesitate to send its "seed militia" to check that farmers do not resent its own varieties...). the resolution calls for the union not to align itself with us law, and once again in the ttip negotiations. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint resolution by the greens, the gue and the efdd. it is aimed at countering the decision of the european patent office which has agreed to patent plant characteristics, which is contrary to the approach of the union and france. we believe that plant characteristics and the 'material' used by breeders should remain accessible to all. the resolution of the greens, the gue and the efdd called for the union not to align itself with us law, and this, once again, in the context of the ttip negotiations. the green amendments improve the scope of the directive, including respect for farmers' rights.
in writing. ‒ both the patent and the certificate of plant origin (cov) are means of protecting the intellectual property of plants. the resolution aims to clarify the application of the european directives on the protection of biotechnological inventions. the report expresses concern that 'the recent decision of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office in cases g2/12 (tomatoes) and g2/13 (broccoli) could lead to an increase in the number of patents granted for natural traits introduced into new varieties by essentially biological processes such as crossing and selection' whereas such processes are normally excluded. it therefore calls on the commission to advocate the exclusion of essentially biological processes from patentability in the context of multilateral discussions on the harmonisation of patent law. if this text is a small step in the right direction, it does not go so far as to propose a ban on patenting living things. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. the aim of this resolution is to ensure that the union does not align itself with us law in the context of ttip. the european patent office has agreed to patent plant characteristics, which is contrary to the approach of the union and france, which believe that these and the material used by breeders must remain accessible to all. the solution adopted is the introduction of plant breeding certificates, which are a form of protection of the work of breeders without preventing their use for other work. for farmers, this allows them to reap the harvest. the cvo is therefore a lesser evil compared to us patent law which benefits only multinationals. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution which calls on the commission to clarify the interpretation of directive 98/44/ec and to guarantee access to plants produced by essentially biological processes. this resolution follows two opinions issued by the european patent office (epo) on 25 march 2015 allowing the grant of a patent for a plant resulting from an essentially biological process. however, directive 98/44/ec on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions excludes essentially biological processes from patentability. the epo decision is therefore in contradiction with that directive. the aim is to give farmers a clear assurance that their access to the plants resulting from these processes is protected.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this resolution is to ensure that the eu does not align itself with us law in the context of ttip. the european patent office has agreed to patent plant characteristics, which is contrary to the approach of the union and france, which believe that these characteristics and the material used by breeders must remain accessible to all. the solution adopted is the introduction of plant breeding certificates, which are a form of protection of the work of breeders without preventing their use for other work. for farmers, this allows them to reap the harvest. the cvo is therefore a lesser evil compared to us patent law which benefits only multinationals. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution echoes two opinions issued by the european patent office (epo) on 25 march 2015 allowing the grant of a patent for a plant derived from an essentially biological process. the principle of patenting plants derived from essentially biological processes would have the effect of restricting the work of farmers and reserving access to patents to only those with sufficient means. however, directive 98/44/ec on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions excludes essentially biological processes from patentability. the epo decision is therefore in contradiction with that directive. i supported the joint resolution by the epp, s&d, alde and ecr expressly asking the commission to clarify the interpretation of directive 98/44/ec and to guarantee access to plants produced by essentially biological processes.
in writing. ‒ burundi is a former german and belgian colony. it gained its independence in 1962. from 1972 to the early 2000s, however, civil war was virtually unabated. since 2000, ethnic conflicts have subsided under the peacemaking efforts of former tutsi president pierre buyoya, until old feuds were rekindled by the willingness of pierre nkurunziza, the current president, to seek a third presidential term. the situation has deteriorated sharply since last may. despite these tragic events, the complexity of the opposition would make any intervention by the european union unnecessary or even harmful. i therefore voted against this joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the situation had calmed down in recent years in burundi, thanks to the efforts of former president pierre buyoya, a tutsi who made peace with the hutus through the arusha accords. but by announcing last april that he would seek a third presidential term, which was forbidden by the constitution, nkurunziza revived old opposition. in may, the constitutional court upheld his candidacy, which sparked very serious riots, with police opening fire on protesters in bujumbura. since april, several hundred people have been killed and more than 200,000 people have been "displaced". at present, the situation seems to be out of control and the whole region is threatened with fire. especially since the rwandan president, paul kagame, has vowed to overthrow the burundian president. all the more reason for the european institutions to remain cautious instead of playing the role of lecturers once again!
in writing. - i voted against this text. i would like to say that the european parliament is not only aware of the situation in burundi, but also of the fact that the situation in burundi is very serious and that there is a risk of a fire in the whole region. while the positions taken by rwandan president paul kagame are worrying, it seems more reasonable to let the african union play a mediating role, especially since this civil war is largely ethnically based. the european union, by its repeated interference, tends rather to inflame the situation, as was the case in the middle east or in ukraine, and it would be wiser to rely on the diplomacy of sovereign states to reach a solution.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, meps call for an end to political violence and intimidation in burundi and for the current government to respect its obligations under international human rights law without delay. on august 26, 2015, president nkurunziza was elected to a third term as burundi's president, despite the constitutional ban and numerous pressures from the international community. since then, the country has been plunged into an unprecedented political, security and humanitarian crisis, according to humanitarian organizations on the ground, which have witnessed an escalation of violence, with more than 200 people killed and 200,000 people fleeing burundi. with my colleagues from the epp group, we have stressed the importance of establishing dialogue and consensus at regional level. a viable political solution must include all regional and international actors. i also supported the granting of financial aid by the union to this humanitarian crisis and voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns very strongly the desire of president pierre nkurunziza to serve a third term in burundi, in contradiction with the country's constitution. this has already led to major clashes in the country and raises fears of further human rights violations and even genocide.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the union is interfering in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, with whole passages sinking into neo-colonialism.
in writing. i preferred to abstain on this text. i recognize that the current situation in burundi is dramatic and that there is a risk of a conflagration for the whole region, but the proposals made by the european parliament are unrealistic, even dangerous. even if the positions taken by the rwandan president, paul kagame, are worrying, it still seems more reasonable to let the african union play a mediating role, rather than imposing the european commission as a policeman, especially since this civil war has largely ethnic roots that escape brussels. it should not be forgotten that the european union tends to inflame the situation when it interferes, as was the case in the middle east or in ukraine. for burundi's security, it would be better if the commission did not intervene and let the local diplomats do their job.
in writing. ‒ last july, president nkurunziza's candidacy for a third term and subsequent re-election plunged burundi into its worst political crisis since the end of the civil war. the influence of paul kagame's rwanda has been felt. opposition has been severely repressed, ngos, journalists imprisoned or killed -- an authoritarian drift in which more than 200 people have died and more than 200,000 people have been displaced. the european union triggered article 96 of the cotonou agreement (consultations and possible sanctions) and considered that the government's responses were not sufficient. the resolution condemns the violence and recalls the need for inter-burundian dialogue and eu financial and humanitarian aid to achieve a peaceful solution and disarmament.
in writing. while i recognise that the current situation in burundi is dramatic and that there is a risk of a conflagration for the whole region, the european parliament is again proposing unrealistic positions, seeking to make the european commission the policeman of world problems. while the positions taken by rwandan president paul kagame are worrying, it seems more reasonable to let the african union play a mediating role, especially since this civil war is largely ethnically based. the european union, by its repeated interference, tends rather to inflame the situation, as was the case in the middle east or in ukraine, and it would be wiser to rely on the diplomacy of sovereign states to reach a solution. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in burundi. this text recalls the large number of victims and cases of serious human rights violations that have been reported since the beginning of the crisis caused by president nkurunziza's third term. it called on all parties to establish the conditions for rebuilding confidence and promoting national unity, and called for the immediate resumption of an open and transparent national dialogue between the government, opposition parties and representatives of civil society.
in writing. ‒ i recognise that the current situation in burundi is dramatic and that there is a risk of conflagration for the whole region. the european parliament is again proposing unrealistic positions, seeking to make the european commission the policeman of world problems. while the positions taken by rwandan president paul kagame are worrying, it seems more reasonable to let the african union play a mediating role, especially since this civil war is largely ethnically based. the european union, by its repeated interference, tends rather to inflame the situation, as was the case in the middle east or in ukraine, and it would be wiser to rely on the diplomacy of sovereign states to reach a solution. i therefore voted against this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on burundi. the situation was still confused at the time of the vote on the number of deaths in bujumbura. since then, nearly 100 deaths have been confirmed. there is real concern about the situation in the country following president pierre nkurunziza's decision to seek a third term and his re-election after the 21 july 2015 elections plunged the country into its worst political crisis since the end of the civil war.
in writing. ‒ this resolution follows developments in the dangerous situation that burundi is experiencing today but the terms of this resolution are yet another interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state with entire passages that will be taken as neo-colonialism. i vote against it.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park, in the democratic republic of congo, has been a unesco world heritage site since 1979 and is a true 'ecological sanctuary'. today, the park is under serious threat from more than 20 armed groups (combat, deforestation, poaching) and from the prospecting of large oil companies, particularly soco international. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which seeks to stop the activities of soco international in the park, to restore security in the area by disarming the rebels and to ask the commission to take action against companies which do not respect the laws and treaties in force.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park is the oldest nature park on the african continent. its area is 790,000 hectares. this park, a unesco world heritage site, is now threatened by the presence of armed groups who not only fight the congolese regular army but also use it for poaching. he is also threatened by the presence of the oil company soco international which has obtained the concession of 85% of the park by decision of the government of the drc. in the last ten years, nearly 140 guards have been killed and the prince of merode, who is related to the belgian royal family, has been seriously injured. the motion for a resolution in question calls for an end to prospecting in the park and for the disarmament of armed groups. both these requests are legitimate and i have therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ located in the east of the drc, on the border of rwanda and uganda, it is the oldest nature park on the african continent. this "ecological sanctuary" of 790,000 hectares, which has been listed by unesco since 1979, is threatened by armed groups (more than twenty) who, in addition to fighting with the regular army, are engaged in poaching, deforestation and "other illegal and unsustainable forms of resource exploitation", but also and above all by the prospecting conducted by soco international, to which the drc government has granted oil concessions covering 85% of the park's area. total also explores in the area but has reportedly respected its commitment not to prospect inside the park. among the many endangered species that inhabit the park, the most iconic is the mountain gorilla. more than 140 guards have been killed on duty in the last decade and its director, prince emmanuel of merode, was himself seriously injured on 15 april 2014. for once, i think it is desirable for the european union and its member states to intervene and i voted in favour of this balanced text.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park in congo is the oldest nature park in africa. it is threatened by deforestation, poaching by armed groups and oil exploration by the soco company (over 85% of the park). many animal species are threatened. the resolution calls on soco to cease all oil exploration, on the drc government to disarm the rebels and respect freedom of the press, and on the drc government to defend human rights and take strong action against companies that circumvent national laws and international treaties. i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, the european parliament stresses the paramount importance of protecting the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo from irreversible damage. listed as a world heritage site by unesco in 1979, virunga national park has been considered since 1994 as a world heritage site "in danger". the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. they called on the member states and the european commission to step up their efforts to help the country to tackle the root causes threatening the country's development, namely corruption and armed conflict. i voted in favour of this resolution in support of these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is aimed at better protecting a remarkable natural area.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because it defends an ecological sanctuary against the threat of oil exploitation. for once, environmental protection may be able to outweigh the financial appetites of multinational corporations!
in writing. i voted for this resolution. it is designed to defend an ecological sanctuary that is a unesco world heritage site, which is now more than ever threatened by a london-based multinational oil company. we have to protect this park!
in writing. ‒ virunga national park, located in north kivu and eastern drc provinces, on the border of rwanda and uganda, is the oldest national park in africa. it is a unesco world heritage site and is world-renowned for its rich biodiversity, including the critically endangered mountain gorilla. yet, armed groups are engaged in poaching, deforestation, and other forms of illegal and unsustainable exploitation of the park's resources. in addition, in 2007 oil concessions in the park were granted to the french company total and the british company soco international. this was done in violation of the paris convention for the protection of the world cultural and natural heritage. the resolution considered it "necessary to prevent the virunga national park, . . . from suffering irreversible damage". the resolution 'urges the commission, the member states, the drc and the oil companies involved in extraction activities to preserve the current boundaries and territories bordering the virunga national park from fossil fuel exploitation'. there is no question of the greed of the european companies involved, nor is there any thought of retaliation. i am voting for this text.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park is an 'ecological sanctuary' of 790,000 hectares, listed by unesco since 1979, which is threatened both by armed groups (more than twenty) who, in addition to fighting with the regular army, engage in poaching, deforestation and 'other illegal and unsustainable forms of resource exploitation', but also and above all by prospecting by soco international, to which the drc government has granted oil concessions covering 85% of the park's area. total also explores in the area but has reportedly respected its commitment not to prospect inside the park. the motion for a resolution calls for appropriate measures: that soco international plc and its company registered in the drc permanently cease all exploration and exploitation in the virunga national park, that the drc government cancel oil exploration permits and that it fight against groups threatening this sanctuary. the park is home to many endangered species, including the mountain gorilla. we must act now. i therefore vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution for the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo. the aim is to ensure the preservation of this world heritage-listed park, known in particular for its mountain gorillas, a critically endangered species listed in the cites convention since 1973. located in north kivu province and eastern province of the drc, on the border of rwanda and uganda, it is the oldest national park in africa.
in writing. ‒ virunga national park is an 'ecological sanctuary' of 790,000 hectares, listed by unesco since 1979, which is threatened both by armed groups (more than twenty) who, in addition to fighting with the regular army, engage in poaching, deforestation and 'other illegal and unsustainable forms of resource exploitation', but also and above all by prospecting by soco international, to which the drc government has granted oil concessions covering 85% of the park's area. total also explores in the area, but has reportedly respected its commitment not to prospect inside the park. the motion for a resolution calls for the application of appropriate measures: that soco international plc and its company registered in the drc permanently cease all exploration and exploitation in the virunga national park, that the drc government cancel oil exploration permits and that it fight against groups threatening this sanctuary. the park is home to many endangered species, including the mountain gorilla. we must act now. i therefore vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this resolution on the virunga national park in the drc. this park, located in north kivu province and eastern province of the drc, on the border of rwanda and uganda, is africa's oldest national park, a world heritage site and world-renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, unmatched in africa; it is particularly known for its mountain gorillas. but it is endangered by conflict and the weakness of the state in some regions, which is no longer able to control what is happening there. so i support any initiative to protect this heritage of humanity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo. this park is the oldest national park in africa and is a unesco world heritage site. despite its protected status as a natural area, it is threatened by armed groups engaged in illegal resource extraction and large-scale poaching, resulting in irreversible damage. the oil company soco international has also been carrying out oil activities in and around the park, which is home to about ten iconic species, some of which are endangered, in violation of various conventions. we therefore call on the government of the democratic republic of congo to abandon oil exploration and exploitation in the park, to cancel oil exploration permits in the area, to reject changes to the park boundaries and to fight against any illegal activity. it is clear that in parallel, we will need to help the national government to define sustainable energy and economic solutions for the communities that are heavily dependent on the natural resources of the park.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls on soco international and its drc registered company to permanently cease all exploration and exploitation in the virunga national park and to respect the current boundaries of the park; it also calls on the government of the drc to cancel the oil exploration licences. it calls on the drc government to disarm the rebels and restore security in the park area, but also to recognise and respect freedom of the press and media and to uphold the rule of law and human rights. it calls on the european union to help the government of the drc. it called on the commission and the member states to take legally binding measures to hold companies accountable for circumventing national laws and international treaties. i vote for the protection of this ecological sanctuary.
